For many investors, there aren't that
many alternatives to the US market.
There has been so much complacency
within the market.
>> There are going to be pullbacks. Those
could be buying opportunities. Markets
are just still so focused on AI is great
for the long term.
>> This market is really going to get its
mojo going forward from earnings.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, tension rebuilds. China
and the US positioning for negotiations
later this month as Fed chair J. Pal
gears up to reveal his thoughts on the
economy. JP Morgan is kicking off
quarterly earnings season on Wall
Street. Those numbers about 45 minutes
away.
>> Can good news from corporate America
overwhelm some of the geopolitical
jitters that continue to mount overseas?
This is a real question here. JP Morgan
might not be indicative of the rest of
earnings season. Nonetheless, people are
highly attuned to any kind of
volatility, any kind of downside
surprise, any kind of mediocre surprise
in any of the corporate earnings that do
kick off in earnest this week.
>> JP Morgan kicking off things later this
hour. Next hour, numbers from Goldman
Sachs this hour. Right now, equities
pulling back by 0.9% on the S&P 500.
Tension between the US and China in
focus. Last week it was about flexing
over refining capacity of rare earths.
This week it seems to be about shipping.
>> It is about shipping. Today China
sanctioned the US units of a South
Korean shipping giant. This comes after
what's going on with rare earths next
last week. What you see is both Beijing
and Washington lining up the bargaining
chips and the leverage they can use at
the end of the month when President
Trump and Xi Jinping sit down. Even more
importantly is going to be when Scott
Besset, the Treasury Secretary, sits
down with his counterpart cuz he had
some hot rhetoric in the Financial Times
today when it comes to China, saying
that this is a sign of how weak their
economy is. They want to pull everyone
else down with them.
>> And this is the problem, I think, for
investors right now. Is this just
positioning positioning for negotiations
later this month, finding some leverage,
pockets of leverage, or is this the real
deal, a sign of things to come?
>> Right now, the market's treating it as
simply trying to get leverage. This is
not a capitulation on the risk on trade.
I think a lot of people saw that
yesterday when we saw the huge swell
into buy the dip when we saw
consiliatory language out of President
Trump. I keep thinking about what Pete
Shear said yesterday at the academy. It
feels different. And this morning I was
thinking the fact that China did not
offer up the same type of consiliatory
language that we got from President
Trump, that tells you something. It
feels like maybe there is a slightly
different tinge to this round of uh tit
for tat. It does feel different for me
as well because when you read through
more of what the Financial Times is
reporting, a senior US official told the
FT that the timing of what China did was
so surprising because it was
disproportionate to what they were
expecting. So if this is fact and the US
official is on background talking to the
Financial Times saying that this was not
what we were expecting, then that means
that the rhetoric is certainly amped up
going into the year end.
>> There's a bit of a tale in the bond
market by the way. That rally from
Friday, it holds. It sticks. Yields are
threatening to break below 4% on a
10-year maturity this morning. We're
down three. That line of the sand. We're
right on top of it right now. 4% on
10-year bond yields.
>> People are more worried about weakness
than they have been. They're worried
about the blowback, the disinflationary
aspect of the tit for tat, especially in
lie of what happened in April 2nd. That
to me is a very different feel. Jeambo
of Black Rockck yesterday said longterm
we could still see that inflation. That
could be a concern, but near-term we
could get a reprieve. And this is a
perverse way of putting it, but we all
understand that. A reprieve from the
idea that the economy is slowing enough
to give a bid to the bond market so you
don't see those runaway yields. Not
necessarily something that's screaming
all clear for people to pile in, but
nonetheless a tactical trade that a
number of people are getting behind.
>> Stocks down, bonds up, bond yield to
lower this morning. We're down by three
basis points on 10's, 4%, a break of 350
on twos, 347 so far this morning. Coming
up this hour, Keith Lerner of Truis was
stocks whipsed by trade tensions. Alias
Galoo of Bank for America as fund
managers see risks of a bubble and
Gerald Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets as
big bank earnings kick off later this
hour. We begin this hour with stock
sliding as investors countdown to the
start of earning season. Keith Lerner of
Truist writing the following. The
current bull market likely still has
further upside underscoring the
importance of staying focused on the
broader trajectory rather than
short-term turbulence. Keith joins us
now for more. Keith, welcome to the
program. Are you expecting some
short-term turbulence this earning
season?
Yeah. Well, first great to be with you.
I think it may be a little bit of a
spookier October. We didn't get the
seasonal weakness that a lot of folks
were looking for in August and
September. And as you just discussed,
like we have this big meeting. It's at
the end of the month. The Fed's meeting
at the end of the month. I think
earnings continue to be the north star.
But I will say heading into the earning
season and we've had just one of the
strongest six-month rallies we've seen
in history. Expectations are somewhat
high. Uh you did see some complacency.
put to call ratios were really low going
into this as well. And as as I look at
the overall market, you're just seeing
some minor cracks. So I I just think
this month is going to be a bit more
turbulence. We still think we're in a
bull market, a bull market that deserves
the benefit of the doubt, but uh you
know, I think this turbulence is likely
to continue through this month.
>> Keith Amber and Lisa were talking about
the tension between the US and China
somehow feeling somewhat different going
into negotiations at the end of this
month. And I think you can see that in
the price action. yesterday's bounce
smaller than Friday's sell-off and the
sell-off resumes again this morning.
Keith, is there something different
about things this time around?
>> Well, I think the the biggest challenge
from a market perspective uh is just
that you're going into this with with
higher expectations. You're at a 22
multiple as I mentioned. You've had this
big run. Uh so, you just have uh you're
more vulnerable to to uh to bad news.
Whether this actually from a political
side is different, you know, we just
don't know yet. I mean, that's just the
reality. We don't know. I think what
we've seen over the last uh you know six
months is that when we start to have
more tension in the markets eventually
you know cooler heads prevail but as as
just mentioned we just made new highs in
the markets. So the question becomes you
know how much how much of a move down do
we need before we start to see kind of a
back a backup and we're only a few
percent from all-time highs. So, I sus I
suspect that we actually still have some
more work to move on the downside before
investors start to focus back on what we
think is the north shore of this bull
market, which is still earnings.
>> So, Keith, this isn't a viable dip yet
for you. Is that correct?
>> This is not a place yet where I would
say I would be aggressively buying here.
No, I I think um you know, if we look
back historically, we haven't had even a
5% pullback uh since April. Um, you
know, that's we also we often talk about
bull uh pullbacks or the emission price
uh to the to the to the market to
eventually higher prices. So, you know,
we're a few percent from an all-time
highs, but these kind of a little bit of
a cracks. I I' I'd like a little bit
deeper of a pullback. And I'm not
saying, you know, 15%. I think something
in the 5 to 10% range would be something
where we would say uh potentially to be
more aggressive.
>> I wonder what your read through is going
to be from the bank earnings that do
kick off shortly. We are expecting based
on what Jeffre uh reported a while ago
this boom in M&A this idea that there's
more corporate confidence. We're seeing
that in surveys. Does that do enough to
alleviate concerns elsewhere and make
you have conviction to buy in a more
broad-based manner?
>> Yeah. Well, I I do think it's important.
And I think you know we're all looking
at whatever economic data that we have
and there's certainly some divergences
between like say Atlanta GDP which is
well above 3%. And this the softening in
the labor market and it's really about
what are the banks seeing what are we
seeing on credit what are we seeing on
on lended on lending. You know in our
view what we're seeing is still this
kind of twospeed economy where the high
end is doing well and there's more
challenges especially at the low end. So
I want to see if that continues. We did
get you know Delta last week which was
encouraging talking about um you know an
upgrade to their view based on the
high-end consumers. So I suspect that
continues but I think it is important
and to to be frank we're not selling
here. We're sticking with the underlying
trend but for us to add more to risk at
this point we would prefer at least a a
little bit of a p a further pullback or
more of a consolidation in time where
you kind of chop around and kind of
reduce these expectations. This morning
the BFA um fund survey came out and we
saw that uh sentiment is or allocations
are the highest since February of of
this year. That was prior to the you
know the setback which was um
exacerbated by the tariff uncertainty.
>> Keith, when you're looking for a
catalyst to look at what could
potentially be a pullback in the market
to then buy more, is it going to be this
month as the tensions ratchet up between
Washington and Beijing?
>> You know, I think I think it it could
be. Uh, and the other thing I'll be
looking for, listen, I expect to have a
good earnings season. Uh, you know, one
thing, as I mentioned, the north star of
this bull market has been earnings. So,
I'll be really interested to see how
stocks react to good earnings. You know,
last quarter we went into the earnings
season and expectations were really low.
There was a lot of uncertainty around
tariffs. What's interesting about
heading into this earning season is
analysts have been raising their
estimates into the earning season.
That's highly unusual. The last time we
saw that uh was in uh for the Q4 um
2021. So that just also means we have
higher expectations and then it also
comes down all you know later on will
come down to tech. Tech's the big part
of this market. We're still bullish on
tech longer term. We still think the
dominant theme is tech but um you know I
I want to see how stocks react to good
news because I certainly think we'll
have a a decent earning season overall.
>> So Keith we have seen these pockets of
credit stress I think we should explore
as well. First brands trickor triccolor.
Have we decided which one it is? Bremo
tricolor trickor
>> tricolor. If you go south of the border
it's trolic
clean. Thank you. That's great.
>> So Keith we've seen those pockets of
credit stress whatever Lisa said and
first brand as well. Keith do you think
that's a private market issue and the
public markets are insulated from what's
happening there? Particularly financial
institutions. How are you and the team
thinking about that situation?
For the most part, we we do think it's
idiosyncratic, but we have to keep an
open mind. We have seen credit spreads
uh over the last week week or so really
kind of rise for the first time in a
while. We all know that credit spreads,
you know, at the lowest in some areas
since the '9s. And uh you know, Friday
in our view as a portfolio manager was a
good stress test for us to see, you
know, does does diversification still
work? I mean, you know, we've got some
questions from people. why don't I own
only tech or why do I only you know why
do I own any bonds and what we saw
especially on Friday is a good stress
test we saw high quality bonds do do
well outperform we saw gold outperform
and and um and then we saw crypto
actually underperform so basic
diversification works again I am paying
attention to the credit marks we have
seen spreads move up not in an alarming
way but something we should at least uh
you know at least pay attention to
>> Keith you mentioned the bank of America
fund manager survey and in that survey
it showed that 57% of all respondents
thought that private credit or private
equity is the latest source or the
greatest source of any kind of systemic
risk or systemic credit event in the
near future. That is the most conviction
that we've seen in terms of a potential
catalyst going back to 2022. Do you
agree with that? Is that where you're
looking for potential catalyst for some
sort of disruption?
>> Well, a lot of times the issues in the
in the overall equity market begin with
the credit market. So is that the the
most you know concerning thing? You know
I don't know as I think about more of
the public markets uh you know we have a
lot of companies that have termed you
know term debt and they have big you
know cash balances earnings have been
relatively positive. So I don't know
that we have like you know a big credit
event unfolding here. But we all do know
that there's been a huge amount of money
into these private markets. They're more
more opaque. And I think that's that's
something that could kind of creep up
more on investors because it's just
like, you know, we have less information
there. You think about we have less
information on the overall economy right
now with without, you know, some of
these um, you know, these economic
reports or government reports. So in the
in in the private credit markets, you
just have less information. So when
things, you know, start to unravel a
little bit, you have less information to
understand more broadly what's
happening. But again, as I think about
more the public markets, it's not
something that at this point, you know,
we really see as a systemic issue.
>> Hey Keith, appreciate it. Thanks for
jumping on. Keith Lerner of Truist. Big
morning coming right up. It looks a
little something like this. In about 30
minutes time, around the 6:45 mark
Eastern time, we should have numbers
from JP Morgan. Later on this morning,
7:30, we should have numbers from
Goldman Sachs. This afternoon, look out
for this. At 12:20 Eastern time,
Chairman Pal addressing the economy.
We'll have full coverage of that on
Bloomberg TV and on Bloomberg radio a
little bit later. The fund manager
survey of Bank of America came up a few
a few times in the last 10 minutes. Some
of the numbers in that number one tail
risk AI bubble. A record 60% say global
stocks are overvalued.
>> At the same time, you see cash uh
allocations at the lowest levels going
back to December of 2024 and really
close to the trigger of 3.8%. Uh that
could get people a little bit nervous
about an overwhelming bullish take. So
yes, concerned about that overvaluation,
but also concerned about missing out.
We'll talk to Bank of America in about
five minutes time on that survey. This
morning, equity futures pulling back by
around 0.9% on the S&P. We're down by
more than 1% on the NASDAQ. With an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief is Lizzie Burton. Hey
Lizzy. Hey John. Black Rockck took in
$25 billion worth of client money in the
third quarter. The world's largest fund
manager expanding its footprint in
private credit and in alternative assets
as well. Investors also added $153
billion on a net basis to ETFs which
topped $5 trillion for the first time.
Elsewhere, China has placed sanctions on
US units of a South Korean shipping
giant and has threatened further
retaliatory measures on the industry.
It's the latest in a series of tick
fortat trade escalations between the two
countries. Still, China's Ministry of
Commerce said that the door remains open
to talks with officials set to speak
later this week. And Broadcom shares are
lower after the chipmaker became the
latest to forge a blockbuster deal with
OpenAI for data centers. OpenAI agreed
to buy custom chips and networking
components from Broadcom to help power
AI services with plans to spend tens of
billions of dollars more on Broadcop
chips in the future. It follows similar
agreements from fellow chip makers
Nvidia and AMD. And that should be my
brief. John,
>> another massive move for another chip
maker. Lizzie, thank you. More from
Lizzie in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, AI bubble territory.
>> We're getting into bubble territory for
sure if this whole AI thing turns out to
be uh a lot of hype. That's not exactly
the end of the world. It's not like
1999.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Ellias Galoo of Bank of America as
he breaks down the fund manager survey
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Got a really busy morning coming up.
Quite a 24 hours for you happening later
on this morning in about 25 30 minutes
from now should get numbers from JP
Morgan. Later on next hour numbers from
Goldman Sachs you'll hear from City as
well this afternoon you'll hear from
Chairman Pal 12:20 Eastern time. All of
that to set up your Tuesday heading into
Wednesday when you get a ton more
earnings from the big banks on Wall
Street, Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley. Plus another read on the
airlines United just around the corner.
The setup this morning really really
defensive. So check out the equity
market. Equity futures down across the
board by 1% on the S&P off by 1.2 on the
NASDAQ 100 and super defensive in fixed
income too. Two's tens 30s bond yields
down across the board. Tens threatening
to break through four. We're looking at
the prospect of a three handle here.
We're down by three basis points on the
session.
>> People don't seem particularly concerned
about inflation. They don't particularly
seem concerned about the US losing its
haven status. And I've seen so many
notes over the past couple of weeks sort
of debunking this idea of the dollar and
of US government debt losing their
status as safe haven. Two things can be
this truth at the same time. They can be
less of a safe haven. They would have
been rallying more. At the same time, it
clearly is the riskoff feel uh that is
vindicating the the the appeal of
government debt as that place for people
to park their cash.
>> There's your three handle 399 on 10 so
far this morning. More on the bond
market later this hour. And the survives
this morning entering bubble territory.
>> We're getting into bubble territory for
sure. If this whole AI thing turns out
to be uh a lot of hype, it's not exactly
the end of the world. It's not like
1999.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Bank of
America out with it October global fund
manager survey showing for the first
time investors consider the AI bubble as
the biggest tail risk. Joining us now to
discuss Alias Galoo of Bank of America.
Alias, welcome to the program, sir. Just
going through some of these numbers,
these stats, stock allocation,
eight-month highs, a record 60% say
global stocks are overvalued. The number
one tail risk is the bubble in AI. I
alas, do you see those data points as
enough to constrain this bull market?
>> Look, John, clearly um the overall FMS
sentiment is nearing full bull
territory. Uh however, I would highlight
that we're not quite at close your eyes
and sell uh level because there are a
few metrics that would temper the full
bull uh sentiment in particular the fact
that there are still more FMS
participant who think the global economy
will weaken in the next 12 months rather
than will strengthen. Also when you look
at the allocation to US equities uh that
is the uh the center of the uh of the AI
story. Um the allocation is today is
neutral. Uh investors have trimmed their
underweight on US equities over the past
few months. Uh they are now neutral on
uh the biggest stock market in the
world. Um and that is why we continue to
say that sentiment and positioning are
less and less of a tailwind to global
risk assets. But it's not yet the big
headwind it was at the beginning of the
year.
>> Alas, could you say the same thing about
gold? What's curious about this moment
is that we've got all this to say on the
equity market, valuations, extended
bubble territory, all of that, and then
you've got gold as the most crowded
trade. What's the relationship between
the two?
>> Look, clearly what's unique about 2025
is that you see the several asset
classes that are hitting all-time high
at the same time. gold, equities, credit
spreads as of the end of September had
hit uh a historical lows if you adjust
for the balance sheet um of of US
corporates and at the same time Bitcoin
as well had hit a all-time high earlier
in the year. Clearly, what's happening
today is that investors are trading
long-term secular themes. They're
trading AI. To do that they are taking
an exposure via the equity market and
that is why they keep buying despite the
perception that global equity market are
overvalued just hit a new record high
this month but at the same time they are
hedging the new the new themes on Fed
independence the new theme that
inflation is just not going to go back
to uh to the to the target of of 2% via
gold. What's very bullish about gold
which we capture now with the FMS survey
is that gold allocation for
institutional investors is very low. The
weighted average go gold gold allocation
is 2.54%.
It has not increased since September.
It's stable since August. And that is
why we think um the gold rally has
further to run. Although in the short
term the price velocity, the fact that
gold is trading 25% above its 200 day
moving average means that there is a
risk of a short-term consolidation
>> which you would recommend that people
buy since you see uh gold going to
$5,000. Now it's by the end of next
year. I am curious whether we get the
same kind of read through from cash
allocations that we have in the past
given the fact that there is this gold
offset that maybe cash doesn't serve as
the same type of safety as it has in the
past at a time of real questions around
debasement of fiat currency.
>> Absolutely. Look, it's a great point. I
I I think what's very important to
consider here is the relative allocation
to cash but also the outstanding cash
holdings. If you look at the FMS survey,
it does show that cash allocation have
dipped below a very important threshold
that is 4%. It's now at 3.8%. It's
remained under 4% for the past few
months and yet risk assets have rallied
uh over the same period. On the other
side, what we see in terms of global
cash holdings, they are pretty much at
record high. If you just look at the um
money market fund assets in the in the
US, they've hit a record high of 7.3 7.4
4 trillion. So yes, exposure to cash is
low. The in fact in FMS investors say
they are underweight cash by the most
since December but the holdings of cash
remains quite high still and that is
given investors enough confidence that
they can continue to uh add in terms of
their risk asset exposure
>> which raises this question if people
really are this bullish why are they so
concerned about private credit and
private equity. This to me stood out of
the whole uh of the whole survey. The
idea that 57% of respondents see private
equity and private credit as the most
likely source of a systemic credit
event. It is completely different than
even last month. What's triggering this?
Do you see validity here?
>> Yes, it's it's maybe the the the strike
reversal that we've seen in in this
month's survey. Uh we've been asking
this question on the most likely source
of a global credit systemic event um
since 2022. And what was striking this
month is that there we recorded the
biggest conviction on the unique source
of a credit event in the sense that
almost 60% said it was uh private equity
and private credit. Look the reason is
very simple. The investors just look at
the latest development in the auto
consumer subprime market over the past
few months. The the default wave that
have engulfed triricolor first brands um
and they also see the linkages between
the private credit market and the
financial system. You know, there have
been a few news that several
institutions were um exposed to uh to uh
to to these default uh waves and that is
spooking investors when they they see
that credit valuations are maybe just as
exuberant as AI stocks are and that is
why they uh they are now a bit more
cautious on this side of the story.
>> The most bullish survey since February,
Alice, thanks for breaking it down. Alis
Galoo there of Bank of America. So
strange to see KKR down on the year by
close to 20%. At the same time, Goldman
Sachs is up by close to 40. We'll dig
into Goldman later this morning. Those
numbers about 60 minutes away. Let's
turn to GM in the pre-market. This
headline for you seeing a $ 1.6 billion
charge on EV production realignment.
Here's the quote from the company.
Following recent US government policy
changes, including the termination of
certain consumer tax incentives for EV
purchases and the reduction in the
stringency of emission regulations, we
expect the adoption rate of EVs to slow.
to translate this. Essentially, people
aren't buying as many EVs because of the
removal of some of the tax credits. And
as a result, GM needs to get on board
and rightsize some of its production. I
wonder if they're the first. I wonder if
they're the last. The Republicans have
basically gotten rid of these credits.
You can get as high as $7,500
of a tax credit. That's the highest
under the Biden administration for an
EV. That all dried up September 30th.
So, if you're not getting that, why are
you going out and buying an electric
vehicle?
>> GM this morning down by 2.5%. Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with Jara
Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets with bank
earnings just around the corner. Plus,
Yahara has your morning movers.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P. The decline
resumes. We're down by 1% on the S&P
500. What a ride over the previous two
sessions. The biggest one day rally on
the S&P since May following the biggest
1-day drop going back to April this
morning down again by 1.3% on the NASDAQ
100 in the bond market. Super defensive
morning. Two-year bond yields down by
three basis points. 10's briefly with a
three handle. 10's at four this morning.
We're down by three basis points. That's
the price action cross asset. Let's get
you some single names ahead of the
opening bow. Three hours away with your
morning movers. Here's Yahihara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. It's been a swing back and
forth for the semiconductor stocks as
they continue to track the flare up in
US China trade relations. The latest
escalation by Beijing is sending Nvidia,
AMD, and Broadcom all lower. And it's a
sharp reversal for Broadcom, which just
yesterday surged nearly 10% on that news
that it was teaming up with OpenAI. But
investors seemingly questioning whether
the AI euphoria can really outweigh the
latest round of trade war jitters. And
it's not just chip makers feeling the
impact. Rare earth stocks are extending
their rally today with critical metals
up nearly 30% while US rare earth and MP
materials are also higher on track for a
fourth straight day of gains. The US
sector has been surging ever since China
tightened its grip on its rare earths.
And we end on Stellantis. The European
car makers ADRs falling 4.8% 8% as the
credit agency Moody's changed its
outlook to negative though it did
maintain its current ratings on the
company. Moody says the automakers
profits remain weak as US tariffs and
sluggish demand over in Europe continue
to weigh on results. John
>> automaker stocks not having a good
morning so far that's for sure. Yhara,
thank you. More from Yhira later on in
the program. Numbers just dropping from
Wells Fargo. Here's the headline. Third
quarter net interest income coming in at
11.95 billion. The estimate was 12 01
billion. So just a touch softer, lighter
than expected. That stock in the
pre-market brammo just about unchanged.
>> What's fascinating here, and it kind of
goes to the dichotomy that you were
talking about, KKR down on the year, big
banks up on the year. It seems like the
actual banking and lending aspect didn't
be meet expectations in terms of
revenues. But it came to banking, it was
the opposite. Investment banking fees
840 million versus the estimate of 742
million. You can see even provisions for
loan losses coming in lighter than
expected. This speaks to this question
of whether and uh and and and the others
are something that's endemic of some
sort of credit issue or not. Provisions
for credit loss is 681 million versus
the estimate of $1.2 billion. So this is
really coming in with sort of a read at
least on their consumers saying there
isn't as much of a credit issue. But
maybe they're not making as much money
from the lending portfolio as they are
from just banking all of the activity
that we see going on. So that's the
latest on Wells Fargo coming a little
bit earlier than anticipated, 15 minutes
earlier than anticipated. The numbers
from JP Morgan with the latest. Let's
cross over to Scarlet Fu to break down
these headlines. Hey Scarlet.
>> Hi John. Yeah, a lot of red headlines
here for JP Morgan. Let's start with the
capital markets and trading revenue. Uh
equity sales and trading revenue where
JP Morgan is a leader here. $3.33
billion handily beating the consensus
estimate of 3.04 billion. When it comes
to FIC sales and trading revenue, $5.61
billion. Analysts were looking somewhere
for somewhere in the neighborhood of
5.33 billion. Investment banking revenue
2.69 billion also higher than what was
anticipated. Remember this was a quarter
in which there was a lot of uh IPO
activity. There was a lot of M&A
activity and all of that uh shows up in
these numbers here. Jamie Diamond also
making some comments saying that the
firm continued to benefit from higher
client activity. We had gotten some kind
of setup from the firm that things were
looking pretty good and the anticipation
heading into these results was for a
beat and raise kind of quarter
especially for the likes of JP Morgan
and Goldman Sachs which we'll be
reporting a little bit later on this
morning. In addition, let me just give
you some more comments from Jamie
Diamond. He is saying that the US
economy generally remained resilient and
this is critical here because we are in
a data vacuum without any government
data. investors are really looking
towards these set of results to shed
some light on how companies are doing
and how consumers are doing and so far
so good at least when you look at the
capital market side of the equation.
Diamond continues to say there continues
to be a heightened degree of
uncertainty. So cautious as always. Uh
when you look at some of the bottom line
numbers here, earnings per share for the
quarter was $5.7. If we were comparing
like with like the consensus estimate
was for $483.
That is a big beat as well. uh Diamond
saying some signs of softening are
emerging particularly in job growth. So
again, as much as he says the US economy
is generally resilient, he does add a
degree of caution when it comes to job
growth and the uncertainty out there,
especially uh when you think about the
macro environment with all the tariffs
or tariff threats flying around. Uh
let's go back to Wells Fargo for a
moment here because uh those numbers
came out as well and it was a miss
especially when it look when you look at
the net interest income line and that
was the one that investors are reacting
to here. Net interest income for the
third quarter of 11.95 billion does miss
the average analyst assessment of just
above 12 billion. The bank also
reaffirms its uh net interest income
outlook for the full year of 47.7
billion, just slightly higher than what
was anticipated. But the focus here
really is on how Wells Fargo builds
itself out after the asset cap had been
removed by the Federal Reserve.
>> Scarlet Fu Scarlet, thank you. Scarlet,
stay close to break down these numbers.
We'll have Goldman in the next hour or
so. If you are just joining us, welcome
to the program. So upside surprise,
third quarter equity sales and trading
revenue $3.33 billion the estimate just
north of three. The JP Morgan third
quarter fixed sales and trading revenue
number comes in at 5.61 billion. The
estimate was 5.33. So that's another
upside surprise. The stock a little bit
lighter this morning. We're down by 7/10
of 1%. Just bear in mind year today that
stock is higher by close to 30% for
2025. We've had quite a run. For those
of you interested in the commentary from
Jamie Diamond, the JP Morgan Chase
chairman and CEO, here's the full quote
for you. Well, there have been some
signs of a softening, particularly in
job growth, the US economy generally
remained resilient. However, there
continues to be a heightened degree of
uncertainty stemming from complex
geopolitical conditions, tariffs and
trade uncertainty, elevated asset
prices, and the risk of sticky
inflation. But guess what? JP Morgan
comes out with all those warnings and
then prints some upside surprises.
>> They printed the upside surprises. I
think it's important where they printed
them. It goes back to the banking and
trading activity. That is the upside
surprise with fixed sales and trading
and equity sales and trading.
Interestingly, net interest income came
in below expectations akin to what we
saw at Wells Fargo. I mean, look, this
is light, but the expectations were very
high as you mentioned. I also think it's
interesting that provisions for credit
losses were $3.4 billion versus the
estimate of 3.08 billion. How much is
this in recognition of some of these
geopolitical risks? And how much is this
a signal that the likes of JP Morgan
wants to take more risk because there is
more upside profit on the other side?
There are two ways of interpreting this
and that's what I'm going to be
listening for in the commentary. Jamie
Diamond is also talking about the fact
that the US economy generally remained
resilient amongst all this uncertainty.
Meanwhile, just 6 days ago, he sat down
with our own Tom McKenzie talking about
there's still a chance of a recession in
2026. Meanwhile, he's saying even though
amongst this heightened uncertainty, the
US economy was resilient. So, which is
it? Are we resilient right now or he's
really worried potentially about a
recession?
>> This is the one. It's heightened client
activity. Clients have re-engaged.
Corporate clients have re-engaged.
You've seen that in the deal flow.
You've seen that in the debt issuance.
You saw that through the whole of the
month of September. The biggest leverage
buyout on record. Debt issuance, tons of
supply. Clients have re-engaged in a
major way going towards year end.
>> What we heard from Jeffrey is kicking
off the earnings season for the banks
was an unprecedented amount of revenue
from activity from deals etc. You see
the same type of activity in Wells
Fargo. You see the same type of activity
in JP Morgan. How big is that pipeline
and how bulletproof is it to any
potential shock coming forward? Is it
predicated on the idea of rate cuts or
is it that companies see an opportunity
in a wideopen capital markets that these
banks are happy to facilitate?
>> Jared Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets
standing by. Jared we will be with us
throughout this morning breaking down
these bank numbers. Jared welcome to the
program. First of all JP Morgan upside
surprise on equity sales and trading
revenue likewise for fix. Jared is that
a sign of things to come later this
morning?
Jonathan, I think it is. And we all know
that the markets have been very
resilient in the third quarter as these
numbers point out for both Wells Fargo
and JP Morgan. The trading numbers were
better than expected as you pointed out
and it really I think portends well for
the others that are in that business of
course Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley as
well as Cityroup and Bank America.
>> Jared Jamie Diamond highlighting all the
risks out there. I see them too. We all
do. geopolitics, tariffs, trades, but
ultimately Jared, there's something
about client activity and clients
re-engaging into year end. What do you
think is behind that, Jared? And what do
you think makes it sustainable into 26?
>> I think what we're seeing is that a lot
of pent-up demand was pushed from 2022
and 2023 as well as 2024 into this year.
And so you might recall that the
activity a couple of years ago was quite
depressed in the mergers and acquisition
area as well as IPOs. And so I think
what you're seeing now because of the
resiliency in the markets because of a
more uh supportive approach out of
Washington with this administration on
mergers. You're seeing a lot of activity
that would couldn't have been done over
a year ago and now it's coming through
right now. What's your takeaway, Gerard,
from the fact that, as John was pointing
out earlier, KKR and the other big
private asset managers have seen their
shares fall quite a bit this year. There
are concerns about credit issues within
some of their portfolios. And now banks,
which previously had decrieded uh the
competition from some of these private
asset managers, are delivering huge
returns from the activity aspect of
their business. Does it suddenly look
like a pretty good business model and
maybe prevent them from getting into the
lending business as much as maybe they
had hoped a couple years ago? It
>> it's interesting, Lisa, because you
might recall back in July of 2023, the
Federal Reserve put forward what they
called the Basel 3 endgame and it was
going to raise the capital levels for
many of our biggest banks substantially.
So as a result, these banks went on what
they called at the time risk weighted
asset diets. They pulled back from
lending and so the alternative asset
managers, the private credit markets had
a field day. In fact, Jamie Diamond
commented about how uncompetitive this
Basel 3 endgame was. And now, as we
know, that's been thrown out. A new
Basel 3 endgame is coming possibly by
the end of this year or into next year.
And it's going to be much less uh
constrictive for the banks. So the banks
are back in the game. So I think part of
the reason maybe the old asset managers
like a KKKR are not doing as well this
year is that they do have now real
competitors in the banks. And then
second, the growth has been spectacular
for these companies. And whenever you
have rapid asset growth, you always have
to be a little concerned that could
there be some issues on credit down the
road. And also the numbers are very
opaque. So that I think is a combination
of why those companies might be
struggling versus the banks now really
excelling.
>> Jared, stay close. Just want to jump in
with the outlook from JP Morgan now
seeing fullear net interest income of
about 95.8 billion. The previous outlook
had about 95.5. We've seen this movie so
many times, haven't we, Lisa? JP Morgan
comes out with a beat. Jaime Diamond
comes out with a lot of cautious
commentary and then a headline drops
about 2 minutes later raising the
outlook. Look, this is clearly someone
who views himself as a risk manager at a
time where the risks seem to be always
to the upside. It's also the key
sandbagging that JP Morgan is known for.
I wonder, Gerard, how you can put these
two things together or whether the the
sort of pipeline of deals, the pipeline
of activity that's fueling a lot of
these earnings can really sustain
themselves given some of the risks that
Jamie Diamond keeps highlighting, but
haven't really come to fruition in terms
of market performance.
You make a good point, Liser, and you
know this the classic wall of worry that
we see out there and markets tend to do
pretty well as that and we as we climb
that wall but you know Jamie Diamond is
a conservative CEO as he should be and
he's always going to point out the big
risks that are out there while at the
same time they run their business day
day by day. they execute day by day and
right now we're in a very strong
investment banking market that's akin to
what we saw in 2021 and so I think what
you're going to see going forward as
long as the market conditions remain
resilient companies will come public
there will be more mergers going forward
and the investment banks obviously are
the beneficiaries of that kind of
activity
>> Jar Cassidy of RBC charge you got to
stick with us looking forward to
catching up some more anticipating those
numbers from Goldman Sachs a lot of the
story we're talking about around the
banks is pretty well understood. It's
reflected in the share price rally we've
seen so far here today. Slight move
lower off the back of those numbers on
JP Morgan. Now that stock turning
positive, up by about a third of 1%.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief with the latest
worldwide. Here's Lizzie Burton. Hey
Lizzie. Hey John. A reminder of those
earnings. JP Morgan reporting third
quarter revenue that beats the average
analyst estimate. The bank also recorded
beats on equity sales and trading
revenue. and the bank's chief executive
Jamie Diamond saying the economy remains
resilient. However, there continues to
be a heightened degree of uncertainty.
Elsewhere, Wells Fargo also reporting
earnings this morning. The bank raising
a key profitability metric marking the
first major update about the bank's next
growth target after the removal of
regulatory restraints. However, Wells
Fargo did report a miss on net interest
income. The company also reaffirming
that its guidance for net interest
income remains steady and stands. And
shares of General Motors sliding after
the automaker announced a massive $1.6
billion charge related to shifting
electric vehicle production plans. GM
cited the end of federal EV tax credits
and relaxed emission standards for the
expected hit, writing in a regulatory
filing, "We expect the adoption rate of
EVs to slow." And that should be my
brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. Up next on the program,
we'll break down the latest. So far so
good for the big banks on Wall Street.
Lizzy went through the numbers. JP
Morgan up by 1.3% in the premarket.
Wells up by 2.6. Goldman Sachs 45
minutes away. Jarro Cassie of RBC still
with us.
[Music]
So, we've had numbers from JP Morgan
from Wells Fargo already this hour. The
numbers were okay and it fails to put a
floor under this equity market. Equity
futures down taking another leg lower.
We're down by 1.3% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ down by 1.6. In the bond market,
check it out. Fixed income 2-year,
10ear, 30-year bond yields. Bonds hold
on to those gains. Yields are down by
three basis points. just about holding
on to 4% on 10 twos at 347.
>> If we revisit an April 2nd type of
decoupling between the US and China,
banking activity that might be in the
pipeline won't be enough to really get
people back on the sides of trying to uh
boost valuations further. I just wonder
where the offramp is and whether this
market is trying to sus out that maybe
this time it's going to go on a little
longer or maybe this is a good selling
opportunity, lock in the gains and wait
for a better entry point.
>> Let's talk about the latest. Wells Fargo
JP Morgan reporting just moments ago
with the latest. There's Bloomberg's
Scarlet Fu. Hey, Scarlet.
>> Hey, Jonathan. So, we're looking at JP
Morgan erasing earlier declines. It's
now up slightly here. Uh, coming into
these results, the idea was that there
would be potential upside to the capital
markets revenue check. That's exactly
what we got with a beat on both uh fick
trading, fixed income currencies,
commodities as well as equities trading.
And this was the case where JP Morgan
had already guided higher in September
for both of those uh businesses. We also
saw a solid net interest income for the
quarter. And in fact, JP Morgan boosting
its fullear net interest income to $95.8
billion uh from the consensus estimate
of about 95.47
billion. We're also hearing some uh
cautious commentary from Jamie Diamond,
the CEO, saying that the US economy has
remained generally resilient, but he
does see a heightened degree of
uncertainty, particularly when it comes
to job growth. Uh assets under
management for this company also uh
swelling to $4.6 $6 trillion thanks to
the booming stock market which increases
the value of those assets. Provisions
for credit losses does increase as well.
So kind of in tandem with that cautious
commentary from Diamond. $3.4 billion
set aside for potential bad loans.
Analysts were looking for somewhere in
the neighborhood of 3.08 billion. Let's
move on to Wells Fargo, which is a stock
that has uh kept pace with the S&P 500
and its peers so far this year, but uh
for the since the last earnings report
has really underperformed. So you could
see it's gaining about 1.3% so far today
in the early trade. Net interest income
for the quarter that passed did miss
analyst estimates but the bank
maintained its fullear forecast of $47.7
billion in net interest income. And more
importantly here it aims to achieve
tangible common equity return of 17 to
18% in the medium-term. That is an
upgrade from its previous guide of about
15%. And just as a point of comparison,
JP Morgan's target for the medium-term
of tangible common uh equity return is
about 17%. Uh Wells Fargo, of course,
has been constrained by the asset cap
imposed by the Fed. It was it was the
case for about 7 years, and the Fed just
lifted that not so long ago. So, we're
looking at other parts of the business
that it's growing. Investment banking
fees uh increased 25% to $840 million.
Analysts were looking for $741.6. I know
that's a drop in the bucket compared to
the likes of uh JP Morgan, but it's an
area that Wells Fargo is certainly
looking to grow.
>> Scarlet, thank you. Scarlet Fu with the
latest. More from Scarlet later this
morning. Numbers from Goldman Sachs 40
minutes away. Jared Cassidy of RBC still
with us. Jared, let's pick up on what
Scarlet was talking about. This story is
pretty well understood. That's reflected
in the rally we've seen already in the
name so far this year. The challenge for
people still in the stock story is well
understood. How full is the valuation
>> in terms of JP Morgan John the valuation
is full but if they continue to deliver
20% return on tangible common equity and
numbers like you saw today you can see
obviously the tangible book value per
share continue to grow and even if the
value valuation remains unchanged
there's still upside in the stock. What
do you need to hear, Gerard, on the call
in terms of either AI adoption or future
points of revenue going forward to say
it's still a buy even with full
valuations?
>> It's a very fair question and I would
say that one of the areas I think
investors are going to focus on is the
traditional banking area. They JP Morgan
reported very nice loan growth on a
year-over-year basis. And yes, we all
know about the capital markets business,
investment banking being very strong,
but it's really going to come down to
also the traditional banking businesses
and what kind of growth they're going to
see. And again, they they saw very good
growth today in the year-over-year loan
growth. So, that will be one of the
areas I think people will focus on. And
then the sustainability, of course, of
those capital market numbers
>> going forward. But I wonder how the the
announcement that we got from JP Morgan
yesterday kind of plays into the future
earnings revenue. We heard that they're
planning to increase their investments
to strategically important companies in
the United States, potentially investing
alongside companies the US is taking a
stake in or the ones that might be
relevant to that type of effort. Does
that move the needle at all or is that a
drop in the bucket when you start
talking about $95.8 billion in interest
income in a year?
It it certainly um doesn't move the
needle, but it's very important. JP
Morgan is our largest bank in the United
States and Jamie Diamond has always
expressed his desire to be a very strong
supporter of the US economy and the US
in general. So, in our view, when you
come out with an announcement like they
did yesterday, he's putting his money
where his mouth is, if you will, and
he's investing in the United States. He
believes in our country. He believes in
the democracy and he's a leader and he's
showing it with this type of
announcement in our view.
>> If he's putting his money where his
mouth is, given yesterday's
announcement, given today he's talking
about complex geopolitical conditions,
do you think this means the bank might
take steps to derisk from China? they
themselves,
>> I would certainly say that they're
always on their guard when they talk
about their global expansion. And when
you're expanding into a communist
country like China, you've got to be
especially careful. And so I don't
necessarily believe they're going to
pull back from that. But certainly there
has been under this um this White House
an increased focus on investing more
into the United States. And it's also
due to the fact that if you think back
during the pandemic, the supply chain
disruption was dramatic. And many of the
investments we're seeing today is as a
result of that. And I think what you're
seeing here, JP Morgan is also now
taking a very sharp look at looking at
the critical industries that they want
to support with this announcement they
made yesterday.
>> Jared, it's good to see you. You're
going to stay with us. I know you're
going to break down the numbers with
Goldman Sachs in about 35 minutes time.
Stay close. Joe Cassidy of RBC with the
latest on Wells Fargo, on JP Morgan. I
think we've got to bring you the latest
on the broader equity market because
this downdraft continues. Took another
leg lower in the last 15 minutes, even
with fairly decent bank numbers from the
likes of JP Morgan and Wells Fargo.
Equity futures down by more than 1% on
the S&P 500. And we're holding on to
those losses even with an upside
surprise on some of the banks so far. It
all comes down to this question of
whether the US and China can repair what
seems to be an escalating feud and
really whether they can even meet uh
with Xihinping and President Trump on
November 1st given the rhetoric that
we've seen which seems to be only
heightening and China's response wasn't
necessarily the same type of
consiliatory language that we got from
Trump and for that reason people are
saying hold on a second things are
already looking pretty frothy why don't
we just take some chips off the table
despite what we see from the banks
>> the Financial Times reporting also
giving some context and depth of what
China has been coming out with they said
that this was on the list of negotiating
bargaining chips China presented in the
summer and the lead negotiator said to
them it that they will be very
aggressive and the US would face quote
hellfire if things didn't go their way.
They were using this in the summer and
then came out with this right ahead of
potential sitdown between Xi Jinping and
President Trump. It took 18 months to
just get agricultural purchase agreement
done. Trump won. Does anyone think this
is going to get done in two weeks? The
big difference between the risk aversion
of the last few days and the drama of
April this rally in the bond market
10-year bond yields close to 4% twos at
347. Coming up next, Lisa Shannon of
Morgan Stanley, the Republican
Congressman Michael Kurt of JP Morgan,
and we get more bank earnings with
Jericho Cassidy of RBC.
[Music]
>> The economy in the US is very strong.
>> There are some signs of slowdown within
the labor market, but we're not talking
about recessionary. We have a slowing in
terms of the economy, but we don't have
an outright contraction.
>> Most of the data is telling us that
we're seeing slowing economic growth,
but no recession.
>> Mac is weakening enough. We are a bit
more confident that the Fed can deliver.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Survey starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Declines
across the board. We're down by 1% on
the S&P 500, down by 1.5 on the NASDAQ
100. Okay, numbers from Wells Fargo and
JP Morgan failing to lift the mood this
morning. Wells Fargo higher by 1.6%.
>> So they came out with banking activity
in particular really beating
expectations whether it's trading,
whether it's the M&A that we have been
seeing. As you point out though, right
now is taking the dominant stage is this
tit fortat between China and the US and
it shows how much a reescalation in
trade wars can overwhelm really good
bank earnings. So it raises the question
even if we do get corporate America
firing on all cylinders, are we
susceptible to something on a
geopolitical level that torpedoes the
dynamism that we've seen in equity
markets?
>> You see that tension, that risk aversion
bubbling away in fixed income so far
this morning in the bond market. 10-year
bond yields down by three basis points
just about holding on to four.
>> When it comes to this rhetoric between
Washington and Beijing, I don't think
it's going to stop today. It is going to
continue until these two leaders meet.
And potentially there's not going to be
an outcome come 2025. This might bleed
into 2026. Maybe they put a lid on it,
but it doesn't mean we're going to get
some grand bargain deal because there's
no deal on the table right now. And
usually you would see the Chinese
president only agree to a summit when a
deal is in place. The more important
meeting I think is when the Treasury
Secretary sits down with his counterpart
and potentially we get leaks of a
contour of what could be agreed upon
when it comes to this relationship.
Right now it's about ships. Last week
it's about rare earths. Who knows what
it's going to be at next week.
>> That seems to be the factor right now in
equity markets worldwide. Later this
morning we get more bank earnings.
Goldman Sachs is about 28 29 minutes
away. After that we'll hear from City.
later on this afternoon. Chairman Pal
12:20 Eastern time. It's amazing how
little people talk about the Federal
Reserve over the last few weeks with
regards to this market. Like I I'm
stunned by we have guests come on to
talk about 10 15 minutes about the
market and barely touch on the Federal
Reserve
>> because what are we going to say about
the Fed? They are data dependent. We
have no data. They are completely split
and we don't know who the Fed share is
going to be next year. Ultimately, they
are following the market. They are not
necessarily leading the market. And I
think that that is the truth. Right now,
people are expecting them to cut two
times this year and they're saying that
there is enough consensus on the
committee that probably can get behind
that. Okay, we can forget about that
because any forward look beyond that is
completely irrelevant because it is a
completely different Fed come spring of
next year.
>> Let's see what Chairman P delivers later
on this afternoon. Enjoyed the rap right
there with you.
>> What are we going to say? What are we
laughing along? Lisa Charlotte was there
too nodding away.
>> Plus, it's the easiest job in
Washington, Jonathan. It's a coin flip.
You know that
>> Donald Trump's absolutely right. The
president nailed it.
>> All right.
>> Okay. Coming up, Lisa Charlotte of
Morgan Stanley as bank earnings delivers
some upside surprises. Jerro Cassidy of
RBC with Goldman numbers coming up next
and Kher of JP Morgan ahead of Fed Share
JP Pal's latest address. We begin this
hour with big banks failing to lift
equity markets. Stocks down across the
board, the S&P negative by more than 1%.
Joining us around the table, Lisa
Charlotte of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management. Lisa, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Do you agree with Bremo on the Fed?
>> Uh, absolutely. actually um not not uh
unusual that I agree with Lisa but um
you know fundamentally it's not entirely
clear what would catalyze the Fed to
change its view what would catalyze uh a
shift in the Fed funds curve
>> how relevant is Fed policy to this rally
and valuations at the moment
>> I I think it's been very very uh
critical uh but to Lisa's point I think
we've baked in what uh we can bake in at
the moment knowing what we No. Uh, and
it's it's been pretty concretized. I
mean, one of the things we've observed
is the extent to which underneath this
rally over the last 10 weeks, you've had
this really kind of pro-yclical junky
broadening, right? Where you've really
seen small caps lead, you've really seen
micro caps lead. Um, and that kind of
thing is very much premised on much
lower interest rates. uh and we, you
know, we're in the camp that says that
piece of this trade may have gone too
far.
>> Is there something that we're
interpreting maybe a little bit
incorrectly with the broadening out and
the rally in asset prices? And John was
mentioning earlier this rally in gold
and stocks, this idea that you see haven
assets rallying at the same time that
you see uh risk assets rallying. Is this
a sign of inflation percolating through
where it can in this question of dollar
debasement on the heels of the Fed set
to cut rates regardless of what the
inflationary backdrop really is?
>> Very much so. I mean, this is a case
when the everything rally, right? When
bonds are going up, stocks are going up,
gold is going up. Uh it tells you that
there's still too much liquidity, you
know, slloshing around in the system.
And here's the Fed signaling, you know,
that they're prepared to give us another
100 bips uh in an economy that right now
looks like US GDP is, you know, growing
at a real basis at least 3%. I mean,
this crazy town.
>> Well, does it give you confidence that
we are seeing a rally in in treasuries
amid the crazy town uh in the face of
some potential exogenous shock in the
form of some sort of geopolitical
decoupling? I mean the idea that we're
seeing that rally as John was pointing
out in the long end of the yield curve
maybe giving a bit of a a softening to
that saying well actually maybe this is
a normaly in terms of the reaction
function of government bonds. Um I don't
I don't I'm not sure that what we're
seeing is is all that normal. Um, you
know, like I said, the the degree to
which crosset allocation, uh, cross
asset correlations, I should say, are
are so close to one, um, just makes you
think, uh, that there's a huge amount of
liquidity out there and people are
buying everything hand over fist.
>> What do you make of the recent tension
between Washington and Beijing, the
decoupling Lisa's talking about? Are we
going back to that volatility we saw in
April? I don't know that we're going all
the way back to April, but I think we're
getting to a much more realistic place.
You know, we went from uh in April the
world's coming to an end uh to, you
know, after April 9th, oh, only kidding,
nothing's going to happen. Um, you know,
this is all going to go away and be
nothing. I think the reality is is that
unlike some of the other uh economies
where you know the United States has
kind of essentially dictated a deal um
it is very clear uh that our
relationship with China is very
different and there are there's much
more equal balance here. We need things
from them uh and they need things from
us. And that means you're actually going
to have to negotiate. Not something that
this administration has demonstrated a
very, you know, robust track record.
They've done a very good job at
dictating um thus far. Uh and so I think
that this could be a little bit drawn
out um because there are going to be
puts and takes and some compromises.
>> If this gets drawn out, there's no
agreement when these two leaders meet,
what kind of market reaction could we
see? I I think this is where some of the
tempering in the market um you know
comes in. Our best guess is it's not
necessarily a material correction, but
it's a consolidation in the market. And
I think you get back uh actually to the
big getting bigger and and a
concentration in the high quality names
uh and some of that that um lower
quality trade that I talked about um you
know kind of coming off some of the
sizzle, some of the froth uh coming out
of this market uh as folks realize,
okay, wait a minute, this is some
serious stuff. um you know who really
wins here and it my guess is it's going
to be the the bigger guys are going to
be able to survive this.
>> Alisa let's talk about some other
serious things in private markets. I
think people find it difficult to take
the temperature of what's happening over
there and they use some public market
proxies like the stock of a KKR or an
Apollo which is down around 20% so far
year to date and they point to certain
idiosyncratic issues if we can call them
that the likes of first brands and
tririccolor and they're trying to work
out just what is going on here and what
does it for mean for me in public
markets over there how do you answer
that question at the moment
>> so that's a fantastic question because I
think it speaks to this disconnect
between the small midcap world which is
really what is inside of these private
equity portfolios. Uh and our thesis has
been um you know if everything is
perfect in private equity world in
portfolio world um why aren't we seeing
more deal activity? Why aren't we seeing
more distributions? And our thesis has
been because there's a little bit more
pain there because there there are high
borrowing costs there. There is some
stress there. Those portfolio companies
are feeling some of the brunt of tariffs
and pressure on margins and and uh and
the borrowing costs. Uh and so you know
from from where we sit the what you're
seeing in the public equities of some of
these general partners um is reflective
of that stress and it and it is telling
us uh I think and confirmatory of our
view that some of the the smaller micro
cap uh midcap stocks uh that have run
you know maybe are overheated. What's
the difference between weakness and a
sense that there is more uh pain in some
of these areas versus systemic risk
which is what some people are worried
about a credit event that could
potentially prec precipitate something
more pernicious. Yeah. So there's always
the risk that you know you have credit
events um in in these kind of markets
where people have taken on leverage. I
think one of the things that folks hope
is that because some of the the froth in
the lending has occurred in the private
markets that it's not systemic and for
the moment we're willing to buy into
that uh argument.
>> Lisa, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thanks for breaking it down. Lisa Shadow
of Morgan Stanley. Some concerns about
what's happening in private markets here
reflective of maybe what's going on in
the broader economy more so than what's
happening at the top of the S&P 500.
What I find interesting is you're not
seeing that kind of stress necessarily
at the big banks or in their balance
sheets. And how much are they catering
to a very different clientele now that
is uh better financed, wealthier, bigger
companies and they can be insulated from
the stress that you see much more
consolidated in some of these private
asset companies not because they're
taking excess leverage but because of
the aspect of the market that they're
catering to.
>> It's well said. Very well said. The
latest numbers from Wales and JP Morgan
pretty decent. Goldman Sachs about 20
minutes away. Let's get you an update on
that and a whole lot more with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. JP Morgan reporting third
quarter revenue that beat the average
analyst estimate. The bank also recorded
beats on equity sales and on trading
revenue. The bank's chief executive
Jamie Diamond saying that the economy
remains resilient. However, there
continues to be a heightened degree of
uncertainty. Elsewhere, Wells Fargo also
reporting earnings this morning. the
bank raising a key profitability metric
marking the first major update about the
bank's next growth target after the
removal of regulatory restraints.
However, Wells Fargo did report a miss
on net interest income and the company
also reaffirming its guidance for net
interest income remaining steady. And
Ukrainian leader Vladimir Zalinski is
planning to meet with President Trump in
Washington on Friday. The two will
discuss air defense and weaponry as
Russian strikes on Ukraine's energy
system intensify. Silinski is looking to
secure longrange Tomahawk missiles from
the US and he also plans to discuss
importing natural gas from the EU,
Norway and others. Unless you bloom a
brief, John.
>> Hey Lissy, thank you. More from Lizzy in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the promise of pay.
>> We are so very grateful that President
Trump has stepped up to ensure that our
troops are going to be paid on October
15th. until Donald Trump gives them
permission to meet, they're going to
continue to hide as it relates to
sitting down and negotiating a
bipartisan agreement.
>> I think it's fair to say the president's
been pretty busy elsewhere over the last
24 hours.
>> He doesn't say doesn't exist for him.
>> I mean, come on. I mean, for good
reason, too.
>> Yeah. Well, I think that there's been a
very big geopolitical tent at the same
time of a government shutdown in the
United States.
>> Up next, we'll get into the main debate
down in Washington, DC. We'll catch up
with the New York Congressman, Michael
Lola. He joins us next live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We're recovering somewhat. Still down by
1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're
down about 1.3. Talked about these moves
and fixed income in the bond market with
this tension rising, rebuilding between
the US and China. Two-year bond yields
down three basis point 10ens down to 4%
on 10 so far this morning. Said this a
few times in the last 60 minutes. The
bank earnings have been okay. Wells
Fargo, JP Morgan, Goldman coming up
later. It's just failed to lift the
broader equity market even with gains
for JP and for Wales.
>> You have this broader concern about
geopolitical tensions. You also have of
course the idea that these big banks
aren't necessarily banking the entire
consumer base of the United States and
that there are different consumers, some
of whom are struggling more than others.
But I think that the bigger point here
is valuations are elevated and there
still is quite a bit of uncertainty and
that reality is coming to the four this
morning.
>> That's the latest on the stock market.
Remember you will hear from Chairman Pal
later on this afternoon 12:20 Eastern
time. And this event this morning, the
military getting paid.
>> The Democrat party is utterly
rudderless. We are so very grateful that
President Trump has stepped up to ensure
that our troops are going to be paid on
October 15th while we wait for Democrats
to stop holding the country hostage.
>> Speaker Mike Johnson and I have not met.
We know that until Donald Trump gives
them permission to meet, they're going
to continue to hide as it relates to
sitting down and negotiating a
bipartisan agreement.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Americans feeling the pinch of the
shutdown stalemate. President Trump
promising to pay troops tomorrow but
holding back checks from other federal
workers. With the latest down in DC in
Washington, here's Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. So, some of the
pressure points are being eased, but
there is little sign of progress as the
Senate returns to Washington today, but
the House still remains out of session.
Now, the White House has confirmed that
both the military as well as members of
the US Coast Guard are going to get
their paychecks this week. The military
is going to see their pay funded by $8
billion in unallocated funds for
research grants within the Pentagon,
while the US Coast Guard is going to see
some funds redirected within the
Department of Homeland Security. The
White House is also maintaining that a
key supplemental nutrition program for
women and children will be funded
through tariff revenue. And while both
sides of the aisle are at least quietly
happy that the administration is is
making these moves, ultimately all of
these moves are facing legal scrutiny
since Congress didn't appropriate the
funds for this reason. Plus, there are a
lot of other issues that don't have as
immediate of solutions. Everything from
small businesses seeing federal loans
halted to companies reporting issues
issuing stock and other securities since
most of the SEC is currently furled. Not
to mention that there are delays
nationwide at airports with a shortage
of air traffic controllers. Now,
Republicans maintain they're not going
to negotiate with Democrats until the
government reopens, but our
understanding is there are at least some
bipartisan informal conversations
happening on Capitol Hill about some
structural changes to the Affordable
Care Act premium tax subsidies in
exchange for an extension. But John, at
this point, it doesn't appear that's
happening at the leadership level. Now,
November 1st is the beginning of open
enrollment. That could be our next big
pressure point, but that's still two
weeks away.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. I'm happy to say we can
extend the conversation with New York
Congressman Mike Lawler. Congressman,
welcome back to the program, sir. The
good news, the military looks like it's
getting paid. Can you just walk us
through how you would characterize
current negotiations?
>> Uh, well, uh, the Democrats, uh, refuse
to do their job. You know, Hakee Jeff
talks about getting permission. Uh the
reality here is that AOC and Zoran
Mandani and the progressive left are
who's driving the ship here. Uh Chuck
Schumer and Hakee Jeff have been
petrified uh to do their jobs and so
they shut the government down uh for
fear of a primary challenge from the
left uh and to show their progressive
base that they're quote unquote fighting
back, resisting uh you know, President
Trump. Uh and it's fundamentally wrong.
They are holding the American people
hostage. Uh House Republicans passed a
clean continuing resolution over three
weeks ago to keep the government funded
to pay for all of these critical
programs, to ensure that our troops are
paid, to ensure that border patrol
agents are paid. Uh and yet Democrats
have voted over eight times uh against
the clean CR. and we'll see what Chuck
Schumer and Senate Democrats do today.
Uh but it doesn't look good. Uh and you
know, when uh I was in Washington last
week, I went and confronted Hakee Jeff
to his face and pointed out that if he's
serious about tackling the healthc care
challenges in our country, sign on to
the bipartisan legislation that would do
that. And he refused. So this really is
not about healthcare. It's not about a
specific policy outcome. This is about
Democrats showing their progressive base
uh that they're fighting back against
President Trump. Meanwhile, look at the
juxtiposition. President Trump on a
24-hour trip to the Middle East secured
peace and Democrats are playing patty
cake here in in Washington DC, shutting
the government down and holding the
American people hostage.
>> Well, what two weeks needs to be there
needs to be some offramp at some point.
Would you support structural changes to
the Affordable Care Act premium
subsidies in exchange for an extension
to get the government back up and
working?
>> Well, to be clear, the offramp is the
clean CR that's been sitting in the
Senate for over 3 weeks. With respect to
the Affordable Care Act, uh number one,
since Obamacare took effect in 2010,
you've seen premiums skyrocket across
the country. Uh and Democrats put in
place these uh enhanced tax credits
during co uh they were slated uh to
expire at the end of this year. Uh
Democrats knew that they passed it into
law. Uh and they knew that they couldn't
extend it beyond that period because of
the cost associated with it. Uh I have
signed on to legislation to extend it by
a year uh because we don't want
Americans healthcare premiums to spike.
But it speaks to the fundamental problem
with Obamacare, which is that it didn't
actually do what it was intended to do,
which is reduce health care cost in
America. Uh and in fact, it has uh
exploded uh since its inception. So uh
look, I am open to obviously uh solving
the issue uh both short-term and
long-term. We have to we have to address
the cost of health care in this country.
Um, but Democrats just, you know,
pounding their fists on the table,
stomping their feet, and demanding uh
their way uh is not the way to govern.
You don't hold the American people
hostage. And by the way, don't take my
word for it. Go look at every quote from
Chuck Schumer, Hakee Jeff, Nancy Pelosi,
and name the Democrat. They all
previously believed that you don't use
government shutdowns uh to exert policy
outcomes. And now fundamentally they
have changed their view because Donald
Trump is president.
>> Congressman, also being held hostage
right now is data which the financial
services industry, the Fed, we all rely
on. You are on the financial services
committee. Do you think the White House
should deem the BLS data like the jobs
report we're still waiting on essential?
Look, obviously that information is
critically important uh for the Fed and
others to do uh the work that is
required. Um but this is the fundamental
challenge. They're trying to figure out
how to pay for, for instance, our
troops, which is vital. Uh they're
trying to figure out how to pay for uh
critical programs like WICK and SNAP. Uh
and so the these are the very difficult
decisions that any administration is put
in uh because of the incalcitrance of my
Democratic colleagues here. Look, I've
been opposed to government shutdowns
regardless of who has tried to do it. I
criticized my Republican colleagues last
Congress when some of them wanted to
shut the government down over Joe
Biden's disastrous open borders. Uh
while I agreed with them on the merits,
the fact is shutting the government down
wasn't going to solve that problem. And
the same applies here. What the
Democrats are doing is creating more
problems. The Fed, to your point, needs
to be able to do its job. They need to
cut rates. They need the information uh
with respect to jobs, for instance. That
is critically important. So, yes, we
want them to be able to get uh that
information. The fastest way for all of
this to come to an end, uh, the fastest
way to ensure that government does its
job is for my Democratic colleagues to
go back to Washington today in the
Senate and vote yes to open the
government up and pass the clean CR.
>> The White House has also taken aim on
projects in New York City, $18 billion
worth of New York City infrastructure
projects. You are in a swing district
and you are facing a lot of challenges.
A lot of Democrats are lining up to try
to flip that seat come the midterms. Are
you concerned about potentially the push
back you're going to get from things
like this, billions of dollars being
frozen right here in New York?
>> Look, I've already spoken out against uh
the freeze on that project uh and have
been in touch with the administration uh
to uh get that project uh back up and
running.
>> Are they going to?
>> But again, the fastest way to do that is
to pass a clean CR. And that's the point
that I've made over the last week uh to
my New York colleagues uh and uh to the
press that these projects uh can easily
come back online when the government is
open and running. Uh Gateway is a
critical project for my district. Uh we
don't have a one seat ride from Rockland
County where I live. Uh Gateway will
provide that. So this is a critical
infrastructure project not just for New
York City or New Jersey uh but for the
region. Uh but you know this is
something that I have fully supported uh
in terms of uh getting the funding for
that project and we'll continue to fight
to do it. Uh but again based on
conversations it's not that hard to
figure out if you open up the government
a lot of this stuff will be resolved.
>> Congressman we got to go. Appreciate
your time as always. I'm sure you've got
to go too. Mike Lauder there, the New
York congressman. On the latest
situation down in Washington DC, the
latest situation on Wall Street, a big
week beat for Goldman Sachs. Third
quarter fixed sales and trading revenue,
$3.47 billion. The estimate $3.18
billion. We'll get into those numbers in
just a moment. Joe Cassidy of RBC is
with us next.
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. What a volatile few sessions
since Friday. Friday, the biggest
one-day loss since April on the S&P 500.
Monday, the biggest oneday gain since
May. This morning, we're down again by
0.9% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100,
we're down by 1.23. Lots of earnings to
talk about. JP Morgan and Wells Fargo
already reporting. Just moments ago,
Goldman Sachs. We'll have more on that
in just a moment with your movers this
morning. Here's Yahira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start on the banks and with
JP Morgan up first. Shares are slightly
lower down about onetenth of 1% even
though it crushed it in trading and
investment banking. No surprise there
with all the volatility we've seen in
markets plus the level of IPO activity
and data center financing. Meanwhile,
turning to Wells Fargo, those shares are
up 2.3%.
While it's not a big player in the
space, it also posted better than
expected investment banking fees. Wells
did slightly miss on net interest
income, though shares are brushing it
off, up 2.3%.
Another company reporting results this
morning is Johnson and Johnson with a
beat in a raise. Those shares are down
about 2/10en of 1%. The market really
punishing stocks this morning. Investors
are also were also cheering its plans to
separate its slower growth orthopedics
business within 18 to 24 months. And we
end on GM shares are falling 1.7% now
after it said it will incur a $1.6 6
billion charge in the third quarter as
it reassesses its EV plans due to slower
demand. It cites the Trump
administration's moves to end the
federal EV tax credits and relaxing uh
relaxing emissions rules. Remember GM
had been pushing hard into EVs, but now
it says that it expects the adoption
rate to slow. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara in the next hour. Let's
get some more on the bank earnings
record third quarter revenue for Goldman
Sachs with the details. Here's Scarlet
Fu. Hi, Scotlet.
>> Hi, John. Yeah, Goldman Sachs really
delivering on its traditional areas of
strength, trading and investment
banking. Investment banking revenue rose
43% year-over-year. Advisory revenue
rose 60% year-over-year and underwriting
rose 21% for equities and up 30% for
debt. Now, when you look at trading
overall, there is a bit of a wrinkle
when you break it down into asset
classes. For fick, fixed income,
currencies, and commodities, that rose
17% to 3.47 billion, handily beating the
average analyst estimate. But the
equities trading rose 7% and I missed
the consensus estimate by about $200
million. $3.74 billion reported for the
quarter. Goldman also set aside less
money for bad loans for the quarter uh
setting aside 339 million versus the
consensus estimate of almost $370
million. In addition, for these big
banks, their biggest expense is
compensation. And operating expenses did
increase 14% year-over-year, more than
anticipated. compensation expenses rose
by the same amount, 14% more than
anticipated as well. Uh, one thing to
keep in mind with Goldman, of course, is
that it is the most exposed big bank to
investment banking revenue. So, it'll
have the fastest response among all
these different firms that we track uh
to recession risks or any kind of
erosion or deterioration in market
conditions. But for now, this looks like
a solid number, especially on the uh
investment banking side.
>> Scarlet, thank you. More from Scarlet
later on this morning. Just go through
this line by line. advisory revenue be
global banking and markets be investment
banking be record third quarter revenue
for Goldman Sachs
>> and it comes from a lot of pretty steady
revenues. It's not just the idea of
markets going up or down. It's the
financing activity the prime brokerage
activity record quarter in both the fick
side of things as well as the equity in
terms of that type of financing
activity. I just wonder whether this
really is going to be a tell about the
vulnerability that Scarlet was saying
going forward to the deal making kind of
coming off or what they see in terms of
the pipeline. Is there going to be an
ongoing activity pipeline that is
similar to what we just saw in the third
quarter?
>> Joe Cassley of RBC Capital Markets still
with us. Jared, you touched on this
earlier on this morning. Let's build on
it. Lisa was just talking about it. You
talked about the pentup demand. How much
of it is just pent-up demand? How much
of it is new business that can carry
through, push through into next year?
and beyond.
>> Jonathan, it's a really good question
and we're going to get those answers, I
think, on the earnings calls for Goldman
Sachs and JP Morgan because we have to
remember private equity when you look at
their portfolio companies, we hear from
those firms that they need to monetize
those investments and because of the
slowness in the IPO market in 2024,
we're likely to see more of that take
place in 25 and 26. And to your point,
Jonathan, about the advisory business, a
way to monetize those investments, of
course, for those private equity
companies is to sell some of those
portfolio companies. And I think you're
going to see more of that. So, I think
we're going to hear good news on the
future pipelines from these companies
about advisory revenues as well as ECM
activity.
>> How much charge is that a broader read
on the economy versus a specific sector
that has a lot of pent-up demand? And
it's important because if you do believe
that there is this potential for
geopolitical risk or if rates aren't cut
as much, is this a vulnerable type of
pipeline that could be building?
>> The pipelines for the investment banks
are always market dependent. And I know
that's an o overused term, but it's
true. And so you're right, if there's
elevated global uh risk, that certainly
uh makes those pipelines a little more
fragile. But right now the US economy as
as you guys know uh when you take a look
at the Atlanta Fed forecast for what
they think it's growing at is well over
3%. So that's real positive for this
type of investment banking market. So
the outlook is more I I would say of
robust growth here in the US even though
you do have those global tensions which
does add to the risk. Goldman Sachs
emphasized a lot of their repeat
revenues whether it's the financing
business, the prime brokerage efforts uh
on the part of fick and equity uh
investment units. There's also a
question about asset and wealth
management and some of the record
management and other fees that they
brought in. How much do you view this as
a bank that is more insulated to a cycle
versus something that is more
susceptible to the es and the flows in
market activity and just market
sentiment?
So they're always going to be um you
know a prisoner if you will of the
markets and that's not necessarily a
negative term but yes they have
diversified into more predictable
revenues as you described the wealth
management area being one of them and I
think what you're also finding is that
under the leadership of David Solomon
they have really decided to increase
their penetration in their top 150
institutional accounts and they've had
real success there. They want to be
number one, two or three with those
accounts for that repeat business that
you just described. So yes, they are
improving that. They are get having more
predictable revenues, but we also have
to remember the biggest part of their
business still remains trading and
investment banking and there's nothing
wrong with that, but it is something
that you have to be cognizant of in
terms of market conditions. We're
talking about also any kind of read
through to the underlying consumer and
we point to the idea that credit losses
Scarlet was mentioning came in lighter
than expected at 339 billion versus the
estimate of 369.6 million. All of these
are rounding errors when you look at
their actual revenues. Is there any tell
from that in terms of the broader
economy and any potential slowdown in
certain sectors? Or is this completely
different because they're dealing with
high netw worth individuals who have a
very different credit profile than maybe
some of the areas that are seeing bigger
pockets of pain in the United States?
>> It it's interesting because it's ironic
when you look at their credit the
consumer credit side of Goldman Sachs,
it's really not high net worth. It's I
would argue when you look at the FICO
scores it would be you know middle
market down to above slight you know
near subprime but not subprime but we
also saw that JP Morgan in their um
outlook piece they lowered their credit
card loss expectations so what we're
seeing on the consumer side is yes that
subprime the low FICO score consumer is
certainly struggling with the higher
inflation lower wage gains but the
middle market and then the emerging
affluent and affluent markets are still
very healthy and that's where the most
of the banks focus their lending on.
They're not going after the subprime
market. And earlier when we were talking
about credit, we have to also remember
post financial crisis, the US banking
industry's been derisked and that's also
showing up in these numbers today for
all the banks.
>> Jared, is the same true for the regional
players, the regional banks,
>> John? Absolutely. Now, of course, we
have the idiosyncratic credits that you
guys have talked about with First Rans
and Triricolor. Um, we're certainly
going to see that happen from time to
time, but the regional banks in our view
also should be reporting good quality
credit as well as we go forward into the
reporting season this week
>> because I know you cover fifth third as
well that tie up with co America. Jared,
are you focusing on seeing more of the
same from the regional players into year
end? We've talked lots about the deal
flow, but within the deal flow, the
mergers and acquisition story is getting
a little bit more interesting for the
banks.
It
>> John, it really is. And if you start to
see rates continue to come down, one of
the obstacles to getting more deals done
is the marks that the buyers had to put
on the sellers assets. And as you
recall, many of the banks bought bonds
and made loans back when rates were much
lower in 2020 and 2021. As those
portfolios burn off, and if rates come
down further, that obstacle goes down,
which makes deals, you know, even more
attractive. So yes, you know, as you and
I have chatted in the past, back in the
80s, we had 18,000 banks and thrifts.
Today, we're down to about 4,300. M&A
activity es and flows, and we expect
over the next 12 months, you'll see a
real pickup within the banks, more
mergers and acquisitions, especially if
rates continue to trend down.
>> A sign of things to come. Jared, you're
going to stick with us. Charity of RBC.
We'll have more from Jared in the next
hour. get numbers from City in about 20
minutes time following record third
quarter revenue from Goldman Sachs this
morning and almost I stress almost
almost a beat across the board.
>> I mean honestly the only uh one point
where you didn't see a beat was in
equities trading everything else pretty
much across the board. Net interest
income came in at $3.85 billion versus
the estimate of $2.87 billion. So almost
an entire billion dollar in addition to
what people were expecting. The EPS was
$12.25 versus the estimate of $8.40. 40
cents. It really goes to the question is
Goldman Sachs highly leveraged to the
cycle of uh capital markets and what
we're seeing in terms of deal activity
as well as high net worth individuals.
So they're not going to see the
weakness. How translatable, how
transmutable are these types of earnings
to say the uh smaller banks to some of
the more regional players as well as to
private credit which is more connected
to the underlying economy.
>> The stock is a little bit softer this
morning but that stock has had quite a
run for 2025. of Goldman Sachs so far
this year before today. Year year to
date up around 37 40% big move for the
year so far. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide. Here are your
headlines with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzy. Hey
John. Goldman Sachs shares are lower
after the investment bank reported
thirdarter earnings. Goldman beat on
estimates on advisory revenue investment
banking and saw record thirdarter
revenue coming in at 15.2 billion up 43%
from a year earlier. Global deal values
topped $1 trillion for the just the
second time on record, boosted by a slew
of major transactions in the quarter.
Elsewhere, the US has begun collecting
tariffs on imports of lumber and timber
at a rate of 10%, as well as on
cabinets, vanities, and upholstered
furniture at a rate of 25%. The moves,
which went into effect at 12:01 a.m.
Tuesday, threatened to raise renovation
costs and deter new home purchases.
Currently, roughly 7% of all goods used
in new residential construction come
from foreign suppliers. And President
Trump hosting Argentinian President
Javier Mille today. The White House
expected to announce a 20 billion
lifeline to prop up the South American
country's economy. This after the US
Treasury began to buy the Argentine peso
to help stabilize the economy and
bolster support for Malay. Malay faces a
midterm election of course later on this
month. And that should be my brief.
John,
>> Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzy next
hour in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, the case for cutting.
>> The FOMC's decision to cut rates by 25
basis points in September made sense.
Over the rest of the year, I view easing
along the lines of the median SCP policy
path as appropriate. A few more days of
Fed speak before going into the
blackout, the quiet period. Chairman Pal
delivers an address later on this
afternoon. We'll break things down with
Ker of JP Morgan live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Equity futures on the S&P
500 just a little bit softer. Big day
ahead includes Chairman Pal later on
this afternoon. 12:20 Eastern time. More
earnings coming up later. Numbers from
City in about 14 minutes time. Numbers
from the bank so far. So far so good.
The equity market though is failing to
get a lift. The mood isn't changing.
Equities down across the board. We're
down by 0.9% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by a little more than 1%. The
only good news I've got for you is that
we are off session lows. In a bond
market, that rally holds. Had a rally on
Friday, closed on Monday, and the move
sticks. Yields are down by about two
basis points, four on 10 and briefly a
three handle on a 10-year maturity
earlier on this morning.
>> So I guess that the real question here
is how much comfort can investors get
from the idea that developed market
government bonds are acting in the way
that they traditionally do which is as a
riskoff haven. Is that really something
that you could take forward or is this
sort of a momentary knee-jerk reaction
at a time where people have a lot of
money slloshing around and are looking
to put it somewhere?
>> Very different to the price action of
April. Yes, I know we've said that a few
times, but the risk aversion of April,
we were selling bonds, too. That was
kind of scary at one point. We're not
seeing that over the last week.
>> And I don't know how much it's the
revenues coming in from tariffs. I don't
know how much it is concerns that Jamie
Diamond represented when it came to the
labor market softening. I don't know how
much it has to do with Federal Reserve
officials that are going to be cutting
rates and trying to support bond markets
no matter what. There is this question
about how sustainable this is. And I
think that that really is what we're
going to continue to ask.
>> Let's turn to the Federal Reserve under
surveillance this morning. The case for
cutting
labor market risk.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Some
problems with that sound, obviously.
Chairman Pal getting ready to speak,
just not quite yet. A full day of Fed
speak ahead with Fed chair JP Pal
speaking at 12:20 Eastern time. Kher,
the US global fixed income, currency,
and commodity CIO at JP Morgan Asset
Management, writing the following.
Despite the absence of government data,
the Fed is on track to deliver another
riskmanagement cut at the end of the
month in line with market pricing. K
joins us now for more. K. Good morning.
>> Glad to be here, John. Thank you for
having me.
>> Thank you very much for being here. So,
no strong case to deviate from the dot
plot. When do things get harder for this
committee?
>> So, it's an interesting question and
let's take a step back. First off, I
think every time I've been on Bloomberg,
I've been here to comment on a piece of
economic data. CPI, jobs numbers,
there's always data. So, it's kind of
interesting to be here this morning
without a data that you want an
immediate comment from me on. It's kind
of actually a little more relaxing.
>> Okay, I'm struggling, too. And I think
it just
>> making it up, John. It's fine.
>> I make it up every day. Don't worry
about it. Kate, I worry about this Fed
at the end of the month because it could
be uncomfortable for them. They might
not have payrolls. They will have CPI
and CPI might have a three handle. Now,
you expect that rate cut, but how
uncomfortable is that rate cut with
inflation around 3%. So look, I think if
we go back to August, and obviously
Powell's speaking again today, but we go
back to August, Chairman Powell made
very clear that his primary focus is the
labor market. And while we have not
received yet non-farm payrolls, and it's
unlikely that we will get them before
the Fed meets at the end of this month,
there the the data that we can see like
the Indeed job opening type data, any
type of survey data continues to
indicate that jobs are harder to find.
And I think with the Fed's focus on
jobs, they continue. They cut 25 basis
points in October. They cut 25 basis
points again in December. They cut 25
again in January. That's our base case.
>> Does that make you like long bonds here
with the 10-year at 4%.
>> Yeah. In terms of long bonds, yes, we
have been modestly short duration. We've
had a view for a while now that the
10ear is going to stay in a range
between 375 and 4 and a quarter. As John
observed, tenure has struggled to break
through four on technicals. It touched
it this morning behaving as you noted
earlier in a classic, oh risk off, back
to bonds. So candidly, as a bond
manager, as a bond PM, it's kind of nice
to see bonds doing exactly what they're
supposed to be doing. At this point,
>> I'm struggling with this idea that we
can have asset price inflation. We can
have part of the consumer doing
incredibly well because of the wealth
factor, because of the stock market, as
well as the fact that they're getting
paid more, they're getting paid better.
That we can have all of that without
inflation. even if you do have a cohort
of the labor market that's flat on its
back. How do you reconcile those two
things?
>> You rais a great point and I think to
quote the big boss back at JP Morgan,
there's an awful lot of money slloshing
around and I think that's exactly right.
There's an awful lot of money slloshing
around and that's what's driven equity
price appreciation, appreciation in
various things. Inflation's a little bit
trickier when you think about inflation.
What are the primary drivers of
inflation? You get inflation from wages.
We have not seen any wage inflation. I'm
not talking about the next CPI print
that we get. Undoubtedly, that will be a
hot number because we've got effects
from tariffs. But when you take a step
back and think broadly what drives
inflation in the US economy, it's wages.
Like I said, the wage data is very or
the wage the labor market is clearly
showing signs of weakness. So, no signs
of wage inflation. You look at rent
inflation. There's been an awful lot of
supply that's come on come on. The
housing market continues to remain weak.
We don't see long-term structural rent
inflation. And then thirdly, it's
inflation expectations. Those also have
remained relatively contained. So
near-term, yes, I think you'll start to
see the impacts of the tariffs, but
longer term, it's hard to make a case
for high sustained inflation given the
weakness in the labor market and the
weakness in the housing and and rental
markets. So, K, how uncomfortable is it
going to be for the Fed to cut knowing
potentially they're going to have a hot
CPI print because we will get the CPI
report, but as you said, we're probably
not going to get the labor market
report. Jay Powell says he's data
dependent and the only data he's going
to have going into this is potentially
hot CPI.
>> I think they'll go back and look at some
of the real time data. So that some of
the survey data and the survey data,
whatever you're looking at, continues to
indicate that jobs are um harder to find
and there's a shortness of there's not
as much people quitting jobs. I think
the other thing that they're going to
get which is going to be a focal point
for the next three three weeks is
earnings. As you noted, earnings have
started in earnest today and I think
there's going to be a big focus on
margins on what companies are doing in
terms of passing through uh the tariffs
but also what companies are doing with
the labor force. So I think that that'll
be things that they'll focus on.
>> Neil Data agrees with you. He writes in
from Renmack. He says the following. The
labor markets are slowing. Oil is coming
down. Worrying about inflation here just
demonstrates how off the reservation
some of these officials are at these
central banks.
>> Well, okay, maybe that's the case. And I
hear that a lot of people agree with him
and I understand the case. I can also
understand the case on the other side.
When you see the earnings, the likes of
what we've gotten from the banks, when
you see the asset price inflation, and
then you see the fact that some people
are willing to pay $14,000 for a first
class ticket over to Zurich uh at a
random time, you start to wonder at what
point are we looking at? I think it's
more than that, but I would just like to
go on the record that I'm not going to
Zurich and I'm not flying first class
anywhere. I'm not sure where that came
from. Maybe that was the last person
that was in this seat. Just curious
about at what point asset price
inflation translate to either real world
inflation or a deflation in the asset
prices. I just think that there might be
some sort of disconnect.
>> I think Lee is projecting just a little
bit. I think possibly maybe. Is that you
doing a search for next year?
>> Right.
>> Literally the the cost of
>> it's more than $14,000. Let's move on.
>> Why Zurich? Move to you know someplace
else. You buying gold and Zurich. Is
that what your angle?
>> That's it. But now we're tying
everything together. announcing the
increase in the gold prices
>> about the asset price inflation and the
debasement of the currency leading to a
broader base inflation in the underlying
economy.
>> So let's take it back to earnings. I
think the real
>> the real driver of asset prices is the
underlying earnings. So I think the real
focal point right now should be on
earnings. What are what are sustainable
cash flows and what are the multiples
that people are willing to pay for
those? So in public markets, the large
companies are printing money and doing
really well. In private markets, we're
seeing some signs of stress. How are you
thinking about the distinction you would
draw between some of the credit stress
we've seen in private markets and what
you're seeing in public markets?
>> Yeah, I think the interesting thing is
that increasingly the distinction
between public and private markets is
blurring. You know, if if I think about
my career in the in the financial
markets and fixed income markets over
the last 26 years, there used to be a
very clear delineation. This is public,
this is private. What we've seen over
the last decade really over the last
five years in particular is the blurring
of those private equity sponsors. They
don't really care whether they're
borrowing in the levered loan market,
the high yield market or in the uh in
the private credit market. So I think
there's a blending and a blurring of all
of those. So I do think you know we have
started to see some credit I would call
them at this point idiosyncratic. Are
they uh is there a theme on them? There
seems to be a theme of some fraud, some
possible fraud. Back to Lisa's earlier
point, I think when you see so much
money slloshing around, it's not
uncommon late cycle at this point. I
don't want to bring up shades of 1999,
2000, but if you go back in that era,
that was absolutely a time of corporate
malfeasance. So, I think that's
something to watch for. Um, and I think
you make a great point. Overall, in
large cap S&P 500 land, earnings are
strong, cash flow is strong. We've
started to see some weakness and cracks
and other pieces of it. It remains to be
seen. It looks like I haven't looked at
uh this morning's earnings closely since
I was here prepping with you all. Um but
so far it looks like credit quality
remains pretty strong. It looks like
loan growth is is growing in those
markets. So, you know, maybe just
idiosyncratic, but I think as you all
know, when we're managing bond
portfolios, um, some people might make
it seem exciting that it's about what
the Fed's doing, but there's an awful
lot of bottom-up individual security
analysis, and that's really where we're
focused right now, John.
>> We try and make it sound exciting
anyway. K,
>> it's really not, John.
>> Kair of JP Morgan from New York City
this morning. Good morning. The third
hour up next.
For many investors, there aren't that
many alternatives to the US market.
There hasn't been so much complacency
within the market.
>> There are going to be pullbacks. Those
could be buying opportunities.
>> Markets are just still so focused on AI
is great for the long term.
>> This market is really going to get its
mojo going forward from earnings.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Blindberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. On the
S&P up by or rather down by 0.8% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ, we're lower by more
than one full percentage point. On the
Russell, we're negative 1.25. That
screen reflects the tension between the
US and China. But check out the banks.
We've had a lot of beats on Wall Street
so far this morning. from Wales, from JP
Morgan, from Goldman Sachs, higher
almost across the board, particularly
for Wells Fargo, up by 2.6%. City the
latest and we've got another beat brammo
this time from Cityroup.
>> Yeah, beat across the board. I mean, if
you take a look at their fixed sales and
trading, it's uh $4.02 billion. That was
the revenue coming in versus the
expectation of three and three/4ers,
$3.74 billion. Markets revenue came in
at 5.56 billion versus 5.97. We can go
through all of the numbers. The takeaway
here is it's beating across the board in
the banking sector as well as uh the
personal banking revenue as well as
asset management firing on all cylinders
at a time where the banks seem to be
operating in a world of their own. High
expectations and still continuing to
exceed them.
>> City Group up by 0.8% in the last half
an hour, the last 30 minutes. Goldman
Sachs with record third quarter revenue,
city revenue beating in every single
division. With the details, let's cross
over to Scarlet Fu for more. Hey
Scarlet.
>> Hi John. Yeah, I'm taking a look at
these numbers and it's a solid beat
across the investment bank and markets
business as we've seen with most of the
other banks as well for um overall
markets revenue $5.56 billion higher
than the anticipated $5.07 billion. Uh
fixed sales and trading 4.02 billion.
Analysts were looking for just under
3.75 billion. Equity sales and trading
revenue $ 1.54 billion also higher than
the anticipated 1.33 billion. and
investment banking which is a smaller
part of city's business here 1.17
billion uh higher than the anticipated
1.05 billion so fick was a real standout
here for city which was anticipated just
looking at the numbers here um the CFO
Mark Mason had been uh giving
indications that perhaps the firm was uh
maybe backing away from its explicit
cost targets for the full year. So we
did get an update on that. It says it
sees fullear expenses higher than $53.4
billion. The stock right now still uh
trading a bit higher in after hours,
excuse me, pre-market trading at the
moment here. Uh city of course is still
targeting a return on tangible common
equity of 10 to 11% for 2026. So that uh
profitability measure does remain
intact. Uh in terms of the return of
cash to shareholders, Croup bought back
$5 billion of its common shares in the
third quarter as well and it still sees
a fullear adjusted revenue of above $84
billion. So again a lot of question
marks here when it comes to the outlook
for expenses and revenue for this year
after the mark uh the CFO Mark Mason had
given indication that perhaps uh the
firm would be emphasizing other metrics
and not so much the actual line for
total expenses. We'll continue to go
through all these numbers right now, but
um one more thing I wanted to add on is
the Banamex situation. The Mexican unit
that Croup is trying to sell. Uh of
course, it did reject an offer from
Group of Mexico and it did announce
sales um an attempt to sell a 25% stake.
It says that it continues to work
towards a planned public listing of the
firm. The big question is when will that
happen? Will it be delayed until late
2026 or beyond?
>> Scarlet, thank you for breaking it down.
And more from Scarlet Fu later this
hour. Here's the statement from Jane
Fraser of City. The cumulative effect of
what we've done over the past years, our
transformation, refresh strategy, our
simplification have put City in a
materially different place in terms of
our ability to compete. The stock is
higher this morning on the session by a
little bit on the year by a lot. City
Group is up this year by close to 40%.
Similar story for Goldman. JP Morgan's
higher by 30%. This has been the issue
for me so far this morning. Bra, how
much of this morning is new? The numbers
are great, but the story is well
understood and it's reflected in the
rally we've seen so far here today,
>> which is the reason why people said
they've got a very high bar to beat. And
guess what they did and they raised it.
And so this is the question, how much
more is there in the pipeline? This is
why we're all going to be listening to
understand exactly how big the pipelines
are for the fourth quarter and beyond.
How predicated this is on an ongoing
strength in the consumer and forgroup in
particular because they are so global.
they are such an international trans uh
transcontinental kind of bank. What kind
of flows are there at a time of rising
geopolitical stress? Are they seeing
that in terms of their banking or is
that encouraging people to take more
action to diversify into other regions?
>> Let's stick with the earnings this
morning. Matt Stoki of Northwestern
Mutual Wealth Management writes in the
following. The scarcity of earnings
growth that for the past few years was
only found in large cap tech can also be
found across a variety of segments of
the market. Matt joins us now for more.
Matt, I guess just to build on the
conversation we've been having, does
that include the financials, the big
banks on Wall Street?
>> Well, it certainly does, and thank you
for having me again. Good morning. Um,
you know, just look at the numbers for
JP Morgan, uh, that were reported just a
short while ago, you're talking mid-
teens to 20% plus in terms of trading
revenues. And then if you add into that
just the continued health of the
consumer, at least JP Morgan's consumer,
driving credit and debit card spend up
9% in terms of volume year-on-year. um
that is very healthy topline revenue
growth. Uh again to my earlier comments
that I sent over um it's not just a max
7 uh environment anymore. Certainly
those companies are continuing to be
healthy but you can look to other parts
of the market still and see pretty
attractive topline growth.
>> Matt, it's been really impressive to see
the deal activity of the past few
months. Fifth third got to get together
with co America. Biggest leverage buyout
in market history announced in
September. Paramount still going after
Warner Brothers. Matt, is this just a
feel, a sign, a sense of things to come
for 26? That's certainly the
conversation we had earlier on this
morning. Is this more than just pent up
demand? Is it something bigger than
that?
>> Well, I think it's it's a reflection of
market conditions to a certain extent.
You're looking at high yield credit
spreads kind of near 25-year tights and
that opens the the M&A window in
addition to a change in the
administration from last November. Uh
and so companies are seizing the moment
and companies like JP Morgan, like
Goldman Sachs, as we're seeing this
morning, are capitalizing on that
environment, kind of really generating
healthy topline growth in those feebased
businesses. So, you know, it's it's a
question of whether or not, you know, a
company has a strategic rationale for
expanding through the M&A window, uh
because it certainly is open to them at
this moment.
>> We used to extrapolate out from bank
earnings to the rest of the earning
season and sort of atone to the
overlying economy. Can we still do that
if some of these deals are driven by low
credit spreads and financial conditions
that seem increasingly divorced from
what people talk about in the labor
market and other pockets of select
credit weakness?
Well, I think the nice thing about uh
bank earnings coming first in the
earning season is you do still get a a a
pulse on the consumer and in the absence
of government related data kind of being
shut off at least for the time being. Uh
it's a it's a somewhat comforting
reminder that if you look at the the
credit quality of of the banks that is
that are coming across the wire this
morning that things look fairly benign
in terms of their own kind of uh their
own kind of credit experience.
specifically here if you're looking at
charge offs for uh for JP Morgan you
know down year on year down quarter over
quarter and so some of this labor market
weakness that uh you know has really
captured the attention of policy makers
really isn't impacting the credit
performance at this point for for banks
and it's still also reporting you know
pretty healthy consumer spend levels uh
at the aggregate level and so um you
know I I think if we're looking just at
you know the investment banking activity
that can tell one side of the story but
there is a consumer update that comes
with bank earnings reports that I think
is really valuable in the vacuum of of
very little economic data rolling across
the wire.
>> We're seeing it not have that big of an
influence on uh equity futures this
morning. They are lower and it has to do
with the geopolitics of the moment. The
escalating tip for tap between China and
the United States. I just wonder if
there is enough momentum in the
underlying consumer that you're sussing
out from some of these earnings to give
you confidence to buy a dip, right? To
basic to go in if there is even a
modicum of a sell-off in the face of of
geopolitics.
>> Well, you know, I I think dips probably
we should talk about those as more in
the 5 to 10% category, not the 1 to 2%
category. Um and so I I I think if we're
looking at the market setup here, yeah,
you know, certainly earnings are strong,
but valuations are also very high. Uh
and I would say market psychology just
in terms of kind of what's been driving
markets higher post April has been a
risk on sentiment. Uh with some areas of
the market, you know, that have little
to to negative earnings kind of really
leading the the performance of the
market. And so to me, um you know, I
would say risk appetites are pretty full
on the part of the investor. Uh and so
you know that's not necessarily the the
the dip buying kind of mentality that
you want to charge into uh until some of
those excesses start to burn off in the
market.
>> Are you basically saying that
potentially this quarter, the next few
weeks could be driven by the
geopolitical headlines, less so the
earnings because the rhetoric has gotten
so hot and the valuations are so high.
>> Yeah, I think that certainly is
potentially, you know, something that we
need to watch out for. Um, you know,
just look at kind of what aggregate risk
is priced into financial assets here.
Um, you again, we have credit spreads
near 25-year tights. You know, the
market's trading 22 and a half times
Ford earnings kind of near the top end
of the range for the last 5 years. And
so, it doesn't take a whole lot of
incremental risk to be added into the
equation for that to find its way into
security pricing. Um, that being said,
earnings trajectories look stronger than
any point in the last couple of years,
at least from a broad scope. if we're
looking at things like large cap, small
caps, midcaps, all looking at earnings
revisions pointing up and to the right.
And so it's been a better earnings
backdrop to probably navigate maybe some
incremental headwinds from the
geopolitical perspective, but certainly
um you know, from a pricing perspective,
any kind of wobble in terms of the
geopolitical outcomes as we head into
those negotiations uh could affect asset
prices,
>> I guess. Is it an opportunity to buy
before the sitdown or potentially you
want to know what the news is of the
sitdown after?
it'd be really difficult probably to
say, you know, the outcome of of that
conversation more than the the
incremental investor. And so to me, I
don't think you kind of position a
portfolio with with little to no edge
going into that decision. I think you
just stick to kind of what your overall
portfolio is and uh continue to use
diversification as the as the way to
navigate, you know, a lot of headline
risk that might might be uh might be
coming between now and then.
>> Matt, appreciate it. Thanks for jumping
on, sir. Masi there of Northwestern
Mutual following the latest on the banks
on Wall Street. Really for many of us
earning season begins two weeks
tomorrow. Meta, Microsoft, Google,
that's at the beating heart of what's
happening not just in this market but
also the broader economy at the moment
as well. So got to wait a few more
weeks.
>> That is the GDP story right now is the
AI spend and how much does that continue
to really beat and and raise. That's
really going to give us a sense of how
long this rally can keep on going
regardless of what goes on in terms of
the geopolitical noise. Then you get
numbers from Nvidia in like 10 years.
>> November 19th. Yeah. 2027. Basically
Thanksgiving.
>> I know it's ridiculous. I wish they'd
bring it forward, but they've got their
own reasons. Okay, let's give an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Lizzie Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. City Group beat Wall Street
estimates across all five major business
lines. Total revenue jumped 9% as
multiple divisions set records for a
third quarter. Expenses also climbed 9%
part of that coming from higher spending
on compensation and on benefits to lure
a wave of bankers recruited to bolster
deal making. Now services and US retail
banking units both had their second
their strongest quarter ever. Elsewhere,
Fed Chair Drew Pal is set to speak today
before the National Association for
Business Economics in Philadelphia is
his first major public appearance since
the policy meeting last month which of
course exposed deep divisions among Fed
officials. Meanwhile, Philadelphia Fed
President uh signals she favors more two
more quarter point interest rate cuts
this year. And the International Energy
Agency is expecting a record over supply
of oil next year. The agency expects
World Oil Supply to exceed demand by
almost 4 million barrels a day by 2026.
The anticipated overupp comes as OPEC
plus and some of its rivals continue to
boost oil output. Let's read my business
flash. Your blue brief, John.
>> Hey Lizzy, appreciate it. Lizzie Burton,
thank you. More from Lizzy in about 30
minutes time. Just tracking a media call
for JP Morgan. The CFO Jeremy Barnum
being asked about what's happening in
private markets and the exposure to
things like first brands.
Didn't have exposure to first brands.
Good news has $170 million charge off
for you. You can see where the attention
is going to be the spotlight on the
earnings calls in the next few hours.
How much of this uh credit
qualityworthiness is going to be called
into question as a result of some of the
recent hiccups and how much does really
the the point that Kay was making really
remain relevant which is when you have
frothy markets you get malfeasants you
get fraud you get things that happen in
funny ways and how do you really reduce
your exposure
>> and a lot of that's happened in the dark
with little transparency S&P 500 futures
negative here by 0.8% 8%. Up next, the
morning calls plus Joe Cassidy of RBC as
we recap the latest round of bank
earnings. Earning season on Wall Street
commences.
[Music]
I think it may be a little bit of a
spookier October. I think earnings
continue to be the north star. As I look
at the overall market, you're just
seeing some minor cracks. We still think
we're in a bull market, a bull market
that deserves the benefit of the doubt,
but uh you know, I think this turbulence
is likely to continue uh through this
month.
>> 3 years into this bull market, an 80%
plus rally, trillions of dollars of
wealth created over the past 36 months.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 negative
by 0.9% this morning. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by one full percentage point.
Dominating today's trading, in fact,
dominating the trading of the last three
sessions. This tension between the US
and China.
>> Absolutely. And the latest call out
basically from the Treasury Secretary
saying that what China is trying to do
when it comes to rare earths is bring
down the entire US economy. And what we
have this week is more basically targets
when it comes to hot rhetoric and what
they plan on doing when it comes to
ships. Last week it was rare earths. All
of this before the two leaders are set
to meet. Is there enough time to
basically put a lid on all these issues?
That remains to be seen.
>> Stocks down, bond yields lower. We're
down by one basis point on 10 to about
4% down two on twos to about 350 just
sub 350 at the moment. Ker of JP Morgan
on the program about 30 minutes ago.
Just making a point that this is I guess
comforting the fact that bonds are doing
what they're meant to do.
>> Well, if you're a bonded investor and
you're looking to weakness in the
economy as providing a support to bonds,
then this should give you some
confidence. That said, the rally isn't
that significant on the long end. So, if
you're going to be bearish in any way,
which some people might be, you would
look at something of a, you know, fair
steepening and that would be sort of
what's going on. Some people
>> got to find something and you just like
that little
>> Well, you have to find the contrarian
trade and there is this question of how
much this is viable versus something
that just is momentarily. That's a
knee-jerk negativity. But, all right,
that's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First off, Wolf
Research upgrading AMD to outperform,
saying it needs to quote simply execute
after its open AI deal. Next up, Bank of
America cutting its price target on GM
to 61, expecting lower North American
volumes. And finally, Piper Sandler
raising its price target on Schwab to
100, optimistic on the overall health of
retail traders. And the number one
performer on the S&P through most of
this year, Robin Hood, what just been
flying
>> and frankly, the retail investors have
been bullish and they've been the ones
that everyone else, the institutions
have been chasing. They've gotten it
right. They've gotten rich. And frankly,
the people who haven't been in the
market have been the ones that have
lagged behind in the spending and in the
earnings. So, at a certain point, you
know, success beget success.
>> True. And they've been successful.
That's for sure. Let's stick with the
financials. Big banks kicking off
earning season today. JP Morgan edging
lower despite the bank boosting its net
interest income forecast for the full
year. The CEO Jamie Diamond said in the
release, "While there have been some
signs of a softening, particularly in
job growth, the US economy generally
remained resilient." with a recap of the
earnings this morning. Here's Scarlet Fu
with more. Hey, Scarlet.
>> Hey, John. Yeah, JP Morgan, Wells Fargo,
and Goldman Sachs all reported their
results a few minutes early. Maybe they
were super excited to get their numbers
out because the setup into this earning
season is that the big banks would beat
and raise, especially for JP Morgan and
Goldman Sachs. But you look at how
they're performing in the pre-market
trade right now. JP Morgan and Goldman
Sachs shares are lower perhaps because
they were seen as the big stars and they
had gained so much outperforming the
broader market and their peers. We
already got some indication that the
results would be solid on the investment
banking and trading front because of
Jeffrey's results. Jeffrey posted its
best third quarter ever thanks to a an
explosion of M&A. Uh we saw M&A globally
top $1 trillion in the third quarter
only the second time ever. And that boom
creates a multiplier effect where you
get equity financing, debt financing,
hedging, devestatures. So to that point,
Goldman Sachs investment banking fees
rose 42% and advisory fees surged 60%.
Uh JP Morgan had guided uh investment
banking fees uh to double digit
year-over-year increases. It delivered
on that. Uh you the standout really when
it comes to f trading was city coming
through with an 11% jump to 4.02 billion
and JP Morgan reporting a 21% increase.
On equity trading, uh Goldman Sachs
actually missed by a little bit. JP
Morgan rose uh 33%. What's interesting
of course is also the third quarter
tends to be kind of seasonally slow but
because of all the um excitement over
what's happening with deregulation and
uh the AI trade the activity has been uh
certainly very very robust and that has
translated to uh better revenues and
profit for these big banks. Uh in terms
of the net interest income, which is the
difference between what banks earn on
loans and pay for deposits, their bread
and butter, as you mentioned, John, JP
Morgan uh did raise its fullear outlook
uh by about $300 million, but for the
third quarter, its net interest income
did miss ever so slightly. Uh, of
course, investors and analysts are
perusing through scrutinizing these
reports for any indication on what these
banks say about credit quality, about uh
consumer and corporate confidence,
especially because there's no economic
data right now because of the government
shutdown. Jamie Diamond was fairly
cautious. He usually is in his comments.
But having said that, the numbers really
speak for themselves. And because of the
big gains in their share prices, you're
seeing a little bit of pullback in the
star performers.
>> Scarlet Fu with the latest. Scarlet,
great work this morning. Tremendous as
always. Jarro Cassidy of RBC Capital
Markets back with us for a final word on
things. Jared, so today we've heard from
JP Morgan, Goldman City, Wells Fargo.
Tomorrow, Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America. What have we learned this
morning and how does that inform your
view of what we can expect tomorrow?
>> John, I think what we should expect
tomorrow is the fact that um the trading
results for Morgan Stanley and Bank
America will likely mirror what you saw
today from the big banks, which were
very good. you know, the FIC numbers in
particular year-over-year were strong
and we anticipate that we'll see that
for the others. Also, the investment
banking results, as you've pointed out
already earlier in the show, were also
strong and we should expect that as well
for Bank America and Morgan Stanley. And
finally on Bank America, since they've
got a real deep dive into the consumer,
the consumer numbers we've seen today,
whether it was JP Morgan City or Wells
Fargo, all were resilient and we would
expect Bank America's numbers to be
resilient in that area as well. And on
the call that uh John was mentioning, JP
Morgan called the CFO of that bank
saying that he's not really seeing any
cracks in the credit market aside from a
couple of idiosyncratic areas and says
that for investment banking, all drivers
are pretty much in place. I do wonder
though that what we heard from the Wells
Fargo on their call is that middle
market clients are still cautious on
borrowing. How much do you expect the
success to be mirrored in smaller and
midsize banks that are going to report
that might be more leveraged to those
middle market clients?
It's going to be interesting, Lisa,
because certainly uh Wells has got a
good read on the middle market of the
US. It's predominantly a US bank and the
regional banks though could also benefit
from the fact that the capital
expenditures that we're anticipating due
to the big uh beautiful bill that was
passed in July with the depreciation of
100% of those capital expenditures in
year one could drive commercial and
industrial loan demand. It's interesting
to note JP Morgan's loan growth
year-over-year was 7%. Wells was much
lower, closer to 2%. So, I think what
you're going to see is that Wells is
still coming out of that asset cap. It's
going to take time. They have indicated
that. And so, I think the read to the
regionals is still positive based upon
what we saw from JP Morgan's loan
growth.
>> Gerard, I know that uh you probably
don't want to pick favorites or winners,
but it so far it is early. Who do you
think is winning the uh earning season
right now?
>> Of the four that came out, obviously JP
Morgan's numbers were very strong across
the board. So, you probably have to put
them up at the top of the leaderboard.
City's numbers were also very good. They
had a higher tax rate, which on a bottom
line basis impacted EPS, so probably put
them up second. And then, you know, the
other two, Goldman and Wells are tied
for third. You know, there's gold,
silver, and bronze for everybody.
>> Jared, thank you. Appreciate it. Jerro
Cassidy of RBC. Tremendous to have you
with us throughout this morning breaking
down the numbers from the likes of
Goldman, JP Morgan, Wells Fargo, and
City. We don't have data. We've got
earnings. And in those earnings, if
you're worried about the consumer, I
know this is not a broad view of the US
economy. Certainly the likes of Delta
captures the upper income earners. But
so far, pretty decent. Okay. It's not
reflective of any kind of freakout that
you might have seen off the back of a
massive step down of the payrolls growth
that's developed over the last year. If
the big banks saw a real issue with
credit concerns, they would have
increased their credit loan pro uh their
credit loan loss provisions much more
than they did. And what you're hearing
in the commentary is not a lot of
concern about some sort of rapid
deterioration. So, so far those warning
signs just aren't coming out in the way
that you would expect if we really are
about to uh fall off a cliff.
>> It's an overused phrase, I know, and
we've been using it repeatedly since the
pandemic, but the K-shaped economy.
Yesterday, we called it the Delta
Airlines economy, it's what it feels
like. It's what you see in the data.
It's what you see in the earnings. I
just wonder how sustainable it is. I
mean, I don't want to go all, you know,
societal, but there is but there is that
question. There's also this question of
does the upper income drive inflation
for the rest of the economy.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Joe Davis of Vanguard as he's
expecting just one more rate cup. Plus,
Yahira Island with your morning mover as
the blockbuster AI deals keep coming.
[Music]
Just check out JP Morgan in the
pre-market. Just wanted to give you a
sneak peek of what's happening on the
earnings call at least in the last 20
minutes or so. A lot of interest in
what's happening with the elevated
credit cost figure over at JP Morgan.
And JP Morgan being very transparent
about the situation saying that
contributing a $170 million charge off
was the issue with the subprime auto
lender Holdings. Jerry Barnum, the CFO,
had this to say. We're not in the habit
of calling out exposures to individual
borrowers, especially for amounts that
are quite immaterial, but it's getting
attention, so quote, "We might as well
not dance around it." I think Jamie
Diamond, the CEO and chairman of JP
Morgan, Chase, saying, "Not exactly our
finest moment."
>> Yeah. Really being uh pretty open about
this and explains why their credit loss
build was greater than other banks
relative to expectations. It also is
interesting. They went on to say this is
not something they're seeing in a
broader credit market issue. this was a
couple of bad actors and that they're
going to continue to be vigilant. But it
does speak to that loan loss bill that
otherwise seemed out of sync with the
rest of the banks.
>> Quote, "We do not have any exposure to
first brands. There's nothing more." But
these banks are going to get questions
about what's happening with those credit
events in private markets over the last
few weeks and I imagine we'll get
similar questions tomorrow on earnings
call with regards to the other banks.
Well, to build on that and it isn't just
with respect to these names, Jamie
Diamond also did comment on private
markets and concerns there saying not
seeing it yet, but saying uh that he is
worried about transparency, the lack of
transparency and private credit will
become an issue, particularly he said if
it goes retail. So clearly there is a
greater degree of attention being placed
to this. I also want to point out one
other thing and I noticed this as I was
digging through the results. Their
headcount rose from last year. So
they're talking about AI taking over all
these jobs. You know, maybe not. Their
headcount actually went up a little bit
year-over-year.
>> They're leaning in. Yes. To heighten
client activity, let's put it that way.
Equities, if you're looking at stocks
this morning, of course, we're lower by
0.9% on the S&P. We are off session
lows. We're still down on the NASDAQ by
1.1%. The tension between the US and
China coming back to the surface.
Started on Friday, felt like we backed
away on the weekend, but only really one
party backed away over the weekend. So,
when we bounced on Monday, we didn't
take back all the losses of Friday. Then
again this morning, just more details of
China just tightening the screws a
little bit, positioning for leverage
going into talks at month end.
>> Yeah, new port fees on US ships is what
we got today out of China. This matches
what the US was doing as well when it
comes to Chinese shipping. Last week it
was about rare earth and top of this you
have the treasury secretary speaking to
the financial times talking about some
of the context of what's going on in
these trade negotiations and really he
was really rough on try China saying
they're in the middle of a recession or
depression and they are trying to export
their way out of it. The problem is
they're exacerbating their standing in
the world meaning what they are doing
when it comes to rare earths is not just
going to hurt the United States but it's
going to hurt all of the trading
partners as well.
>> That's a tailwind for the bond market so
far this morning. The yields are lower
across the board. We're down by two
basis points on 10's just north of 4% on
twos 347. That's a cross asset price
action with some single names into the
opening bell about 58 minutes away. Here
are your morning movers with Yahara
Arland. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We have our latest AI deal and
it is a big win for AMD. Oracle plans to
deploy 50,000 of AMD's new MI450 chips
and data centers starting in 2026. Just
highlighting the race to build more AI
computing power. or the deal positions
AMD as a growing rival to Nvidia amid
this push to meet the soaring demand for
uh compute power. As I said, AMD shares
rising 2.3%
on that news. Meanwhile, moving on to
banks, corporate deal making is back and
you can see it in these results. Wells
Fargo shares are up 3.2%. Well, it's not
a big player in the space. Wells Fargo
posting higher than expected investment
banking fees, though net interest income
did come in slightly below estimates.
Meanwhile, City revenue, it beat
estimates on revenue across all five of
its major business lines. While Goldman
Sachs posted record third quarter
revenue on trading and investment
banking, but those shares down 2.6%.
And we are seeing rare earth stocks
extending their gains. Look at critical
metals up nearly 35%.
Now I will note rare USA rare earth up
11%. MP materials up 8% on track for
four straight days of gains. The sector
has been surging ever since China
tightened its export controls on these
rare earth minerals and with every
escalation since including that one
overnight by Beijing. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. The rally in that space has been
unreal. Phenomenal. The opening bow just
around the corner. Let's send to the
Federal Reserve Jerome Pal said to speak
at the NAPE annual meeting in
Philadelphia later on today. Mike McKe's
on the ground and has more. Mike, thanks
for joining us and making time for the
program in midepptember the Federal
Reserve met and since then they've been
light on economic data. What more could
chairman Pal out later on this
afternoon?
>> Well, that's the question of the day,
John, because of course Jay Pal has
taken both sides of the issue so far.
Here's what he said a week after the Fed
meeting. the last time we heard from
him, he said near-term risks uh to
inflation are tilted to the upside and
risks to employment to the downside. A
challenging situation, two-sided risks
mean there is no risk-free path. Well,
that's what folks on Wall Street would
call moto, master of the obvious. And
since J. Pal has to uh basically lead
the Fed, you got to figure out where
he's going or he's got to tell us where
he's going because Friday is the day
that the that night the Fed blackout
starts. And even though we're going to
get the CPI numbers next week, the Fed
will be in blackout, we won't know what
they think about them. And this is a
very divided Fed. If you look at what
members of the open market committee
have been saying since the last meeting,
you've got uh Meerron Pollson, Waller,
Bowman Dailyaly, the usual suspects on
the dovish side, and you've got just as
many on the hawkish side. It's those who
are cautious in the middle who could go
either way, and we don't know which way
they're going to go. Goulsby and uh at
this point, Philip Jefferson along with
Malam uh are the and Michael Bar are the
voters. Where does J Pal lead them?
That's going to be the question of the
day. And you made a good point earlier
in the show, John, about uh J. Pal is
data dependent, but he doesn't have any
data. So, what's he going to say? That's
that's going to be the big question
today.
>> It's going to be very interesting, Mike.
Looking forward to your coverage later
on this afternoon. That speech drops at
12:20 Eastern time. They're in a tough
spot, aren't they? They don't seem to
have a consensus on how to move forward
at the moment. they disagree or have
division around the data we actually
have, but then we've got a bunch of data
we don't have. And then you could see
this situation where they don't have
payrolls, they do have CPI and CPI is
around three and they're going to cut
interest rates in October.
>> And then you add on top of this the fact
that there's probably going to be new
leadership and potentially a new member
come early next year. You put all this
together and you get this reticence to
really do anything that makes waves. I
do wonder if there is a reassessment of
what the neutral rate is, if we do get
some sort of inflationary read that is
elevated in tandem with the earnings,
whether the earnings take on a renewed
interest for some of the Fed officials
in the absence of anything else.
>> Let's stay on the Federal Reserve. Joe
Davis of Vanguard writes the following.
We expect the Fed to ease once more in
25 with October, that meeting being
slightly more likely. Joe joins us now
for more. Joe, welcome to the program.
What makes October more likely given we
are light on economic data at the
moment?
>> Well, I think it's just the slowdown
we've seen in the labor market. Clearly,
there's a number of forces at work.
We've seen some supply come down
materially over the course of this year,
but the fact is demand and businesses
have held back on hiring, too. And so,
for that reason, uh you know, our
assessment for over two years is the
Federal Reserve uh has been restrictive,
perhaps not as restrictive as some
think. Uh and so this is really getting
them to that elusive neutral rate which
no one knows what it is but I think
they're they're approaching uh where it
should be.
>> Joe Mike McKe talked about it the amount
of division on the Federal Reserve. I
assume you believe there is a consensus
on how to move forward. I'm struggling
to identify that consensus given the
amount of different views I see in the
Fed speak. What do you see?
>> Well, I think this is actually somewhat
typical uh of of the various facets of
the economy you could look at when
you're actually close to let's call it
appropriate. I mean, you have a GDP uh
numbers that would at the margin say you
shouldn't be easing at all. The
inflation would point to that as well,
but then you got the labor market uh
that would suggest that you got to take
a little uh risk management in these
policies. So, I think with that,
depending upon how policy makers weight
those various data feeds, again, we're
going to have a lack of visibility here.
I think that's actually part for the
course where we're at now.
>> I just wonder how much they are
prioritizing the labor market if they
cut rates by another 50 basis points. I
mean what is the direct read through to
actually supporting the labor market?
>> Well, I think that's the key issue and
actually the gap between where GDP is
and where the jobs market is, I think is
the is the the key issue for the next 6
or 12 months because does the gap close
because productivity is starting to rise
and we'll start to see then a
stabilization and perhaps a modest
firming in the labor market. That's case
A. Case B though is is that the labor
market is symptomatic of weaker growth
ahead and then GDP would come down.
That's a more recessionary impulse. We
we lean on the former, not the latter,
but it's explaining that gap that's the
critical policy diagnosis over the next
six months.
>> How much is this sort of quietly a
Federal Reserve that is aware of the
fiscal sustainability of the United
States? And I say this with a lot of
questions around Fed independence, but
this is an issue facing central banks
around the world. the idea that there is
just so much government debt outstanding
that inflation concerns have to be
paired much more with fiscal
sustainability and paying back that debt
than they do say anything else. I mean
how much is that coming into play here
in the back of some people's minds?
>> I think it's in the backdrop but it's
increasingly will be in the forefront of
the next several years and you see that
in the price of gold which would seem
inconsistent its rise with the S&P 500
in our framework. It's not. I mean what
we have said for two years is that
there's going to this coming tugof-war
between AI's transformative ability on
the positive side and then if it
disappoints some of the deficit
pressures which again you're mentioning
you see a little bit of that in the
so-called debasement trade we are just
starting this sort of tugof-war and that
is how the market is going to play out
over the next three years is that
tension
>> Joe are inflation concerns going to be
more front and center for the Fed at the
end of the month not just because we're
going to get the CPI report but also
because the ratcheting up of tensions
and rhetoric and sanctions between
Washington and Beijing.
>> Yeah, I think they're still assuming and
I think it's appropriate that although
inflation's been sticky, some of the
so-called dare I say transitory factors
of the tariffs, uh you have to look
through some of that. That was our
thesis that the Federal Reserve would
start to ease policy and it's one of the
biggest rationale for us expecting it in
October and I think it's appropriate. I
think the Fed will look at, you know,
the financial markets, less so gold, but
more break even inflation rates, term
premium in the Treasury market, and
that's still somewhat reassuring that we
don't have a material inflation problem.
Certainly not what we had in 2022. The
key question comes back to where is the
labor market 6 to 12 months in a Federal
Reserve that has eased, then there would
be a reassessment. But when it comes to
the recent trade rhetoric and the tit
fortat between Washington and Beijing,
if we don't get some sort of deal by the
end of the month and this bleeds into
2026, how much more concerning does this
story become for them? How how
challenging?
>> Well, it becomes certainly uh uh
concerning. Uh again, you know, this is
not a great shock if you're a central
banker, if you're an investor to face,
right? because you have downward
pressure on growth if tariff goes up
even from the uncertainty and you push
up uh the inflation rate. So it's
clearly stagflationary. It's it's it's a
sort of card you don't want to be have
to have dealt. I think you have a
Federal Reserve that's assuming the
inflation is more temporary than the
labor market. Uh there's a little bit of
risk in that assessment, but I I think
that's fair for now, but the drag into
2026 that would be I think unexpected
should the the trade rhetoric
accelerate.
>> Joe Davis of Vanguard. Joe, thanks for
jumping on. Appreciate it. trying to
look over what chairman Pal might say
later on this afternoon without data and
predicting what the Fed might do at the
end of the month without data. We'll
have CPI by the way should have it
October 24th. The chairman is attempting
to lead the committee to one particular
perspective around the inflation story
and we saw that at the end of August in
Jackson Hole oneoff not all at once
trying to set up the committee to look
through any inflationary bumps off the
back of the trade story and I think we
saw that reflected from Anna Pollson
yesterday as well from the Philadelphia
Fed when she said I simply don't see the
type of conditions especially in the
labor market which seem likely to turn
tariff induced price increases into
sustained inflation. This is the reason
why I find it really interesting in the
absence of labor market data how they
can come to any kind of consensus about
the other side of the mandate. So maybe
it is a one-off. Do they really see
deterioration or do they see an increase
in productivity? How much of a
readthrough can they get from some of
the earnings that we're getting right
now that speak to a pretty strong
economy? And then say, well, that's a
different economy than the one that
we're facing off with. And then how much
do they see any cuts in interest rates
and actually benefiting the labor side
of the mandate given the transmission
mechanism which is capital markets which
are wide open. So, these are some of the
issues that we have to face off.
>> I'm right there with you. I think that
final point is so so important. What
difference does it make given how loose
financial conditions already are? Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative by about
1% this morning. There's a wait to the
tape this morning going into the opening
bell about 45 minutes away. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief, let's cross over to
Lizzy Burden for more. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. Alphabet betting big on
India. where it plans to spend about $15
billion building out an AI
infrastructure hub in the southern part
of the country over the next 5 years.
Alphabet plans to partner with Indian
companies with plans to accelerate the
AI industry locally. Now, the state
plans to host 6 gawatt of data center
capacity by 2029. Elsewhere, AMD shares
rising in the pre-market after Oracle
after saying that Oracle plans to deploy
a large batch of its new AI chips.
Oracle plans to put 50,000 chips in data
center computers starting in the third
quarter of next year. Oracle and AMD did
not say when they expect the
installation to be completed. And
finally, Nvidia has begun shipping their
DGX Spark chip, which the company calls
the world's smallest AI supercomput.
Powerful enough to run massive AI models
on a desktop. The Spark can be ordered
online starting today and will cost
nearly $4,000. Nvidia CEO Jensen Hang
kicked off the global rollout by handd
delivering one of the first units to
Elon Musk at the SpaceX's Starbase in
Texas. And that should be my brief.
John,
>> hey Lizzy, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Henry Schwarz of SIBO
Global Markets as options traders
prepare for earnings volatility. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning to you all. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
The data that we can see continues to
indicate that jobs are harder to find.
And I think with the Fed's focus on
jobs, they continue. They cut 25 basis
points in October. They cut 25 basis
points again in December. They cut 25
again in January. That's our base case.
>> That was the base case of Kayur of JP
Morgan joining us in the last hour or
so. If you are just joining us, welcome
to the program. As we cut you down to
the opening bell about 42 minutes away,
equities are down by 1% on the S&P 500.
The tension between the US and China
rebuilds. The Nasdaq is down by 1.3%.
You see it reflected in the bond market
as well. Yields down across the curve.
Tens are down by about a single basis
point at the moment. Briefly with a
three handle earlier on in the session
now 4.02% on twos down about a basis
point or two to 34828.
As we count you down to the cash open,
your week ahead and the next 24 hours
shaping up as follows. At 12:00 p.m.
Eastern time, Fed Chair J Pal speaks at
the NAB annual meeting. Also today, the
Argentine President Jav visits the White
House. Tomorrow, earnings from Bank of
America, Morgan Stanley, and United
Airlines. Thursday, a lot of data, all
of that dependent on the government
shutdown. On Friday, President Trump
meeting with the Ukrainian leader
Zalinski in Washington. And you get the
feeling after what's developed in the
Middle East over the last week, that's
the next big push.
>> Absolutely. This is what the president's
focusing on. He actually talked about it
as well yesterday when he was in the
Middle East, how that is another foreign
policy goal of his. So, it's pretty
critical that Vimir Zilinsky will be
making this trip to Washington. We
haven't seen really enough emphasis on
bringing Putin and Zilinski to the table
since that Alaska summit. And I think
the president's going to focus on that
now that Gaza has phase one done.
They're going to still deal with phase
two.
>> That's the latest on the foreign policy
front. Let's turn back to the earnings.
Earnings season upon us. Options traders
preparing for volatility ahead. Henry
Schwarz of Sibo Global Markets writing,
"Most of the increase in dispersion have
come from the large cap tech names as
investors look to earnings to justify
the increasingly high valuation for the
sector." Henry joins us now for more.
Henry, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Thanks. Happy to be here.
>> Before we look ahead, can we start with
Friday? the amount of volume that you
saw go through and how much of that came
from zero today expiry.
>> So yeah, Friday was the new all-time
record for the industry. 110 million
contracts. Okay, keep in mind before co
average daily volume was around 19
million contracts. We'd never seen a day
over 50 million. And this year we've had
two days over 100 million contracts. So
u you know the industry is basically
running at about 21% annual growth.
It'll be the sixth annual record in a
row. Um, Friday was was insane. I mean,
and in fact, you know, keep in mind it
didn't even start until 11 am. It was
actually relatively quiet until then.
And then, you know, then word of the
100% tariffs hit and market fell out of
bed. Uh, you know, we saw an explosion
in volume, which is, you know, and
volatility as well. Uh, you know, you
asked about the zero DTE that that has
been kind of the hottest story in the
last couple years. And normally on kind
of a high volatility day, the zeroDTE
crowd actually kind of tails back their
activity. But Friday was a little bit
interesting, right? Because, you know,
this was kind of an unforeseen comment.
So the zero volume was kind of already
at work. And it was about um in S&P was
about 61% of the average daily volume,
which is a little bit lighter. But you
know, when we see volatility explode and
big big market moves, uh you know, you
you end up basically that's when the
hedggers come in and a lot of positions
are adjusted. So that that kind of
dilutes that zero DTE share.
>> I think what you identified that was
really important about Friday's price
action is this wasn't a sign of panic.
What you saw in the volumes was actually
people start to position for the upside.
Were they anticipating what actually
happened over the weekend? Ultimately it
materialized anyway.
>> Uh yeah I mean we we've kind of been
here before right? April was you know
was a really wild you know first half of
the month and I think that is what
people were looking for. So you know VIX
was up about five points on Friday. uh
about what you'd expect on a move of,
you know, a little bit over 2%. Uh and,
you know, we look at kind of exactly
what goes into the VIX, right? It's it's
constituted, you know, it's built by a
bunch, you know, a strip of S&P 30-day
options. So, they can all lift or, you
know, one side can lift more than
others, meaning out of the money puts or
out of the money calls. When we see fear
and panic, it's the out- of the money
puts, right? That's what we saw in
August of uh, you know, when the the yen
carry trade unwound. We saw, you know, a
real panic to the downside, although it
was very brief. On Friday, we saw
everything lift, but we did see that
upside call uh volatility lift a little
bit more than the downside. So, it is it
basically did look like positioning for
exactly what we got yesterday.
>> How much are these broad market
positions versus individual stock
positions? How much is this disperate
with respect to betting on the MAG 7
versus the entire market as the econ as
the economy? So I I mean basically on on
days like Friday there's kind of a rush
into the super liquid basically S&P uh
you know this the biggest ETFs. So the
single stock volume although it was very
very high it that kind of takes a
backseat on the on the big days but you
know you know as you said before the the
the chatter has been about you know the
concentration of the mag 7 uh and kind
of is this sustainable and most of the
commentary is like this isn't the
healthiest moment for the market. Well,
how much do you see that reflected in
options? The idea that people are
looking for downside risk for some of
the high-f flyers versus upside risk,
especially after days that are volatile.
>> Yeah, I mean, we we actually don't see a
lot of downside hedging in those in
those single names. You know, that that
the single name activity, especially the
Mag 7, it really has been kind of a
story of using options for kind of the
leverage and the convexity you get
generally to the upside just because
that's that's how the market has
behaved. Uh and then in you know in the
the big indexes like S&P that's where we
basically see some of these big
structural hedges. Now, Sibo is actually
rolling out hopefully next month,
depending on the the shutdown, uh, MAG
10 index options, which will actually
make it make it much easier if you did
want to do a hedge, basically buying
puts in the MAG 10, uh, and selling puts
in the S&P to kind of, you know,
position for, you know, maybe a little
bit of a rebalance in the market.
>> When it comes to the price action on
Friday, is it reminiscent for you of
what happened during Trump won or things
different this time? Uh things seem to
be different this time. You know, Trump
won was crazy at the beginning and then
it got really really quiet, right? 2017
was the lowest realized and implied
volatility we'd seen in decades.
>> It blew up in early 18.
>> Yeah. Then things Yeah. We got
Volmageddon. We got some we got some
fireworks towards the end. Uh you know,
for the people that I talked to, this
definitely is kind of a different
moment. You know, it's really
interesting with the government
shutdown. Things were really quiet at
the beginning, right? we just kind of
rallied and then we rallied again and
everybody's like well hey nothing's
going to happen and things are just
going to be quiet and the market you
know this bull market just keeps uh
keeps trudging higher you there does
feel like there's been a shift uh you
know maybe in you know some of the the
geopolitical issues it was a little bit
of you know you know buy the rumor sell
the fact you know now things are kind of
unfolding and you know I don't know
people people are not quite ahead of it
anymore it's good to see you thanks for
breaking it down Henry Schwarz there
global markets. The moves on Friday, the
story that Henry was talking about, just
speaks to the conditioning of investors
over the last year to just buy any
weakness off the back of this story.
>> And frankly, that was all the
commentary. When are we going to buy
this? And on Monday, it was like, yeah,
we're going to do it now. And today,
we're seeing uh maybe another round of
riskoff, but it doesn't feel like an
massive sort of cathartic freakout. It
just sort of feels like probably should
take some chips off the table.
>> It'll be interesting to see if these
moves stick this morning. down 1% on the
S&P, even with fairly decent bank
earnings across the board so far.
>> Can corporate earnings in the United
States overwhelm the ongoing uncertainty
of a major blow up between the two
biggest economies in the world and
ultimately that has been the story for
this year and that will be going
forward.
>> Earning season begins on Wall Street
tomorrow, Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley. Before we get to tomorrow
later, Chairman Pal at 12:20 Eastern
time. Look out for that reaction from
Marvin Lower of State Street, Jill Ford
of Wells Fargo, Alexman of Barclays,
Christopher Marinac of Jenny Montgomery
Scott from New York City. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]